{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset128 MS-Mincho;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl720\margr720\margb720\vieww12240\viewh13900\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Hunter College High School Tournament
\b0 \

\b January 19th, 2008\
Round One\
\
Tossups\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \
1. 
\b This nation\'92s Continuation War involved an alliance with Germany partially to respond to a neighbor\'92s use of the Aland Islands and ended during Gustaf Mannerheim\'92s presidency. It helped the Nazis because it allowed for submarine training in the Baltic and cut off the Murmansk railroad. This followed a 4 month war with fighting was over control of the (*) 
\b0 Petsamo mines, Lake Ladoga, and the the Karelian Isthmus, called the Winter War. They were a grand duchy controlled by Russia until 1917, and which was taken from Sweden. Inhabited by the Suomi, this is FTP what Baltic nation with capital Helsinki?\'a0 \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Finland
\b0 \ulnone  (accept 
\b \ul Suomi
\b0 \ulnone  until it is mentioned)\'a0 \
<Dees>\
\
2. 
\b This author edited Woman\'92s World for 3 years during which time, this author published The Happy Prince and Other Tales. Several previously-published essays were collected in Intentions, which came out the same year as two more collections of this author\'92s stories, Lord Author Savile\'92s Crime, and Other Stories, and A House of Pomegranates. Aubrey Beardsley published an English version of his play originally written in French, Salom\'e9, and soon after appeared his A Woman of No Importance. The Dutchess of Berwick and Mrs. Erlynne appeared in his first major hit, (*) 
\b0 Lady Windermere\'92s Fan, and the title character loves Sibyl Vane and has the title object painted by Basil Hallward in this man\'92s only novel, The Picture of Dorian Grey. FTP, name this Irish author of The Importance of Being Earnest.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: Oscar (Fingal O\'92Flahertie Wills) 
\b \ul Wilde
\b0 \ulnone \
<Tabachnick>  \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
3. 
\b A set of corporate practices developed by Motorola and practiced by 3M and Raytheon, among others, is named for this, implying exceptional quality and almost no manufacturing defects. The so-called empirical rule, or 68-95-99.7 rule, relates area to distance, which is expressed in terms of this quantity. The z-score is computed by subtracting mu from the individual raw score, then dividing the difference by this (*) 
\b0 number, in a process known as normalization. For the Wechsler IQ test it is 15, while for the Stanford-Binet it is 16. It is the root mean square of the differences between each data point and the arithmetic mean. Also defined as the square root of the variance, it is denoted by the Greek letter sigma. FTP, in statistics, this is a measure of the spread of values in a random variable or a probability distribution. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul standard deviation
\b0 \ulnone  (prompt on \'93sigma\'94 before it is mentioned and prompt on "six sigma" before "empirical rule") \
<Chen>\
\
4. 
\b One legend says a wizard took part of Mount Killaraus and moved it here. The circular bank and ditch about 110 meters in diameter were the first parts to be created, along with the 56 Aubrey holes. The Q and R Holes in the middle were dug about 500 years later, and contained materials that were originally thought to have been transported from (*) 
\b0 Wales but are now theorized to have been deposited near the site by the Irish Sea Glacier. The sun rises directly behind the Heel Stone on the summer solstice, when Druidic ceremonies are held. FTP, name this prehistoric monument located north of Salisbury that is mainly known for its large circles of stones. ANSWER: 
\b \ul Stonehenge
\b0 \ulnone  \
<Tse>\
\
5. 
\b It was first observed in 1933 by its eponymous discoverers in tin and lead specimens. Rather than a sharp boundary at the edge of the sample, there is a gradual decay of the magnetic field across the penetration depth of the material. This is caused by persistent (*)
\b0  currents which form on the surface of the material as it is cooled below the critical temperature, which completely cancel out the flux inside it, resulting in perfect diamagnetism. It allows the diamagnetic levitation of small items, including live frogs. FTP, name this uniquely defining property of superconductors, a phenomenon characterized by the complete expulsion of a magnetic field.\uc0\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Meissner
\b0 \ulnone -Ochsenfeld effect\uc0\u8232 <Chen>\
6. 
\b Its "Footnote" begins by repeating the word "Holy!" fifteen times. Its third and final section expresses solidarity with the person to whom it is dedicated by repeatedly stating "I'm with you in Rockland". Its second section begins with asking about a "sphinx of cement", and from there most of the lines begin with an invocation of Moloch. Like the rest of it, the first part of this poem features increasingly long lines about the exploits of (*) 
\b0 "angelheaded hipsters". The dedication is to a mental patient, Carl Solomon. FTP name this poem first published by Lawrence Ferlinghetti in 1956 that begins, "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness, hysterical naked", a landmark beat poem by Allen Ginsberg.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Howl\

\b0 \ulnone <Tabachnick> \
\
7. 
\b This animal\'92s Y chromosome shares genes with the ZZ/ZW sex chromosomes found in birds. It is one of the only animals known to use electroreception to locate its prey, by detecting electric fields generated by muscular contractions. The males have ankle spurs which deliver a cocktail of (*) 
\b0 venom. When this mammal was first discovered by Europeans in the 1700s, most scientists thought it was a hoax. It is one of the five remaining species of monotremes, or egg-laying mammals. FTP, name this semi-aquatic mammal commonly described as \'93duck-billed\'94. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul platypus
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul Ornithorhynchus anatinus
\b0 \ulnone  (accept \'93duck-billed platypus\'94) \
<Chen>\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 8. 
\b This country\'92s ruler Kaleb invaded southern Arabia and ruled there until 525, and a century later, Armah gave asylum to early Muslims. Kassa Halyu had himself crowned Emperor Theodore II in 1855, and was succeeded by Johannes, who was himself succeeded by the signer of the Treaty of Ucciali. Starting in 1527, this country was overrun by Muslims led by Harar, and many of this country\'92s Falashas were repatriated to their religious homeland of (*)
\b0  Israel in 1991 as part of Operation Solomon. This country was ruled by the Zagwe dynasty for 300 years after the fall of the Kingdom of Aksum, and in medieval Europe, this country was associated with the Christian kingdom of Prester John. Other famous rulers include Lij Yasu, Menelik II, and Haile Selassie. FTP, name this eastern African nation, formerly known as Abyssinia, with capital at Addis Ababa.\'a0 \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Ethiopia
\b0 \ulnone  (accept \'93Abyssinia\'94 early)\'a0 \
<Tabachnick>\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
\
9. 
\b The Ugandan party of this name is led by Nsubuga Nsambu and won one seat in the 2006 elections. In Canada one joined itself with pro-conscription liberals to form the Unionist Party in 1917 and was formed by George-Etienne Cartier and John MacDonald, bringing together ultramontane Quebecois and\'a0 Orange men. The most famous one traces its roots to supporters of (*) 
\b0 King James the 2\up7 nd\up0  and\'a0Robert Peel created this party from the Tories. FTP what is this party of Benjamin Disraeli and Margaret Thatcher, which suggests being to the right of the political spectrum. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Conservative
\b0 \ulnone -Unionist Party \
<Dees>\
\
\
10. 
\b This work ends with, \'93Le roi est mort, vive le roi! Ave Maria!\'94 in its last chapter, \'93Farewell to Nemi\'94. Other chapters include \'93Killing the God in Mexico\'94 and \'93Homeopathic Magic of a Flesh Diet\'94. Three chapters are devoted to Attis, five to Adonis, and four to Osiris. Several chapters are devoted to taboos, and another chapter discusses the Corn-spirit as several different animals. Its analysis of the Crucifixion was removed in later editions, and this work otherwise caused a scandal for its inclusion of Jesus in its depiction of otherwise pagan gods. Named after an object that (*) 
\b0 Aeneas and Sibyl presented to earn admission to Hades, FTP, name this seminal work of comparative anthropology by James Frazer. \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: The 
\b \ul Golden Bough
\b0 \ulnone  \
<Tabachnick>\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
11. 
\b In his first appearance in 1940, he is named Jasper, and his ostensible owner from then until 1952 is Mammy Two Shoes, a very stereotypical African-American housemaid. He sings "Is You Is Or Is You Ain't My Baby" to woo a potential mate in "Solid Serenade", and later competes for her affection with Butch. His main enemy takes care of an orphan in a diaper whose speaking roles are almost entirely in French as a Musketeer of sorts, but has also dressed up as a (*) 
\b0 pilgrim and eaten an entire turkey while he himself was dressed as an Indian. He is frequently antagonized by Spike and his son Tyke, bulldogs who inconveniently have a soft spot for collaborating with mice. FTP name this cartoon cat who never seems to succeed in catching Jerry.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Tom
\b0 \ulnone \
<Tabachnick>\
\
12. 
\b Its discoverer posited this based on aberrations in recorded data from an earthquake in the Kulpa Valley. An ophiolite forms when rocks formed in this region are exposed due to an obduction into the continental crust. A proposal to drill a hole down to (*) 
\b0 it was cancelled by Congress due to insufficient support. This can define the boundary between the asthenosphere and the region above it when under mid-ocean ridges, but it usually lies entirely within the lithosphere. It was first identified by its namesake Croatian seismologist in 1909. FTP, name the boundary between the Earth\'92s crust and mantle. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Mohorovi\uc0\u269 i\u263 
\b0 \ulnone  discontinuity (grudgingly accept \'93Moho\'94)\'a0 \
<Chen>\
\
\
13. 
\b His final, unfinished novel concerns two Parisian Clerks who move into the country near Chavignolles to pursue every kind of intillectual stimulation and failing miserably. Related to that work, 
\i Bouvard and Pecuchet
\i0 , is\'a0his 
\i Dictionary of Recieved Ideas
\i0 , which is a\'a0spoof\'a0of the 2nd French empire. Another novel\'92s focus is a Carthaginian priestess,\'a0(*) 
\i\b0 Salammbo
\i0 . His most famous works center on the selfless maid Felicite,\'a0 the autobiographical Frederic Moreau, and\'a0the\'a0bored Norman wife\'a0Dr.\'a0Charles\'a0who commits adultery and suicide. FTP\'a0name this French\'a0author of 
\i A Simple Heart
\i0 , 
\i A Sentimental Education
\i0 , and 
\i Madame Bovary.
\i0  \
ANSWER: Gustave 
\b \ul Flaubert
\b0 \ulnone  \
<Dees> \
\
\
14. 
\b According to Pausanias, the statue of Britomartis in the temple of Olous was made by him, and in the 
\i Iliad
\i0 , Homer calls him the creator of a wide dancing-ground.\'a0 The son of Metion, after arriving in Sicily, he built a temple to Apollo and was taken in by King Cocalus, whose daughters murdered his former employer.\'a0 The partridge avoids high places because his nephew, the inventor of the saw, was turned into one by Athena after he tried throwing Perdix off a tower, and his identity is revealed through a riddle about a sprial seashell.\'a0 At the request of Pasiphae he made a wooden cow, he was locked up after (*) 
\b0 Ariadne fled, but in his escape his son didn't listen and ended up drowning.\'a0 FTP, identify this mythological inventor, the father of Icarus and the man who built, and then escaped from, the labyrinth. \
\pard\pardeftab720\li567\ri1287\sa283
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Daedalus
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 15. 
\b Tone poems by this composer include the semi-autobiographical 
\i A Hero\'92s Life
\i0  and one with a really big cello solo, 
\i Don Quixote
\i0 . Two of his symphonies describe single days: one, a day in the life of his household, including bathing the baby; in the other, he depicts a thunderstorm and the view from a mountain peak. In addition to 
\i Symphonia Domestica
\i0  and 
\i Alpine Symphony
\i0 , he depicted death by a squawk on a clarinet in one tone poem and an (*)
\b0  elegant sigh in another, 
\i Till Eulenspiegel\'92s Merry Pranks
\i0  and 
\i Death and Transfiguration
\i0 . Appropriately, his last major work is his 
\i Four Last Songs
\i0 , and his operas include 
\i Intermezzo
\i0 , 
\i Die Frau Ohne Schatten
\i0 , and 
\i Der Rosenkavalier
\i0 . FTP, name this German composer of the opera 
\i Salome
\i0  and an homage to Friedrich Nietzsche, 
\i Thus Spake Zarathustra
\i0 .\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul R
\b0 \ulnone ichard 
\b \ul Strauss
\b0 \ulnone \
<Tabachnick>\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
\
16. 
\b He asserted that \'93history repeats itself, first as tragedy, second as farce\'94 in his discussion of France\'92s 1851 coup d\'92etat, and another work took the form of a letter to the Eisenbach political party. In addition to 
\i The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Napoleon
\i0  and 
\i Critique of the Gotha Program
\i0  he argued in one work that social relationships were being replaced with commodity fetishism and another begins with the line, \'93A (*) 
\b0 spectre is haunting Europe\'94 and was co-written with Friedrich Engels. FTP, name this philosopher who penned 
\i Das Kapital
\i0  and 
\i The Communist Manifesto
\i0 . \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: Karl 
\b \ul Marx
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
17. 
\b Along with lead and belladonna, it is used to make Aqua Tofana. It is poisonous because it disrupts ATP production by inhibiting NAD+ in the citric acid cycle. During the Bronze Age, it was included in bronze to make the alloy harder. The Grainger challenge is to find an economical way to remove it from contaminated groundwater in countries such as Bangladesh. Some of it was found in Otzi\'92s (*) 
\b0 hair and Napoleon\'92s wallpaper and could\'92ve caused their deaths. FTP, name this metalloid with atomic number 33 and symbol As. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul arsenic
\b0 \ulnone  \
<Tse>\
\
18. 
\b One author from this country wrote a novel that gets its title from a letter by Henry James senior, and chronicles a resident of the Casa de Ejercicios Espirituales, who is a deformed member of the Azcoitias family. Another writer from this country wrote the poetry collections Sonnets of Death and Despair. An author who used to live here wrote the fantasy City of the Beasts along with a retelling of (*) 
\b0 Zorro. The most famous poet from here wrote a 340 poem cycle that examines Latin America from a Marxist view entitled Canto General. Home to the author of The Obscene Bird of Night, Jose Donoso, and the creator of Eva Luna who wrote about the Truebas in House of the Spirits, that author wrote about the dictatorship of Pinochet. The native country of Gabriela Mistral, this is FTP what South American nation, home to Isabel Allende and Pablo Neruda, with captial Santiago.
\f1 \uc0\u8232 
\f0 \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Chile
\f1\b0 \ulnone \uc0\u8232 
\f0 \
<Dees>\
\
19. 
\b In this event\'92s subsequent lawsuit, the legal counsel of the defendants, Max Steuer, discredited a witness who did not alter a word of testimony after several repeats, which implied memorization, thus helping acquit Max Blanck and Isaac Harris.  Their company had already gained fame two years prior in the Uprising of the 20,000, but it was this notorious occurrence which prompted the creation of the American Society of Safety Engineers.  Probably started by a (*) 
\b0 lit cigarette, warning did not reach the 9th floor of the Asch Building in time, the only viable door was locked, and the fire escape quickly collapsed.  FTP \'96 Name this 1911 fire in a New York clothing factory.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Triangle Shirtwaist
\b0 \ulnone  Factory 
\b \ul Fire\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone <Cheng>\
\
20. 
\b A student of this work's artist, Anne-Louis Girodet, depicted a continuation of its story, in which a title character kills his sister for mourning her fianc\'e9, 
\i The Death of Camilla
\i0 . That sister is in the painting itself, along with several other women on the right-hand side. The central figures are preparing to fight an analogous group from Alba Longa, one of whom is Camilla's husband-to-be, who is killed in the altercation. A secondary focus is the background, whose arches number the same as the title (*) 
\b0 characters, while one of the men is clutching a spear in his right hand and himself being held by his brother. A man in front of them has one hand open and three swords in the other, while the three title characters stretch their arms forward towards the swords. FTP name this painting depicting a triplet of soldiers swearing to fight for Rome, by Jacques Louis David.\
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Oath of the Horatii
\b0 \ulnone  \
<Tabachnick>\
\page \pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0

\b \cf0 Hunter College High School Tournament
\b0 \

\b January 19th, 2008\
Round One\
\
Bonuses\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa200
\cf0 1. 
\b0 Name these programming languages, FTPE:\uc0\u8232 [10] This dynamic language created by Larry Wall inspired Python and Ruby. The O\'92Reilly book on this language has a camel on its cover. Many \'93one-liners\'94 are scripted in it.\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul perl
\b0 \ulnone  (prompt on \'93Practical Extraction and Reporting Language\'94)\uc0\u8232 [10] This mid-level language was developed by Bjarne Soustroup at Bell Labs based on another language with a similar name. It inspired the \'93sharp\'94 version of the language on which it was based. Most code written in this language features many curly braces.\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul C++
\b0 \ulnone  (\'93C plus plus\'94; prompt on \'93cpp\'94)\uc0\u8232 [10] This language, one of the oldest still in use, was developed by Rear Admiral Grace Hopper. It has over 400 reserved words, owing to its almost-natural-language syntax.\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul COBOL
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul CO
\b0 \ulnone mmon 
\b \ul B
\b0 \ulnone usiness-
\b \ul O
\b0 \ulnone riented 
\b \ul L
\b0 \ulnone anguage\uc0\u8232 <Chen> \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b \cf0 2. 
\b0 Name these pillars of Islam from clues FTPE: \
[10] This is a pilgrimage to the city of Mecca, and every Muslim is obliged to make this trip at least once in their lifetime. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul hajj
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This is the practice of being charitable, and is obligatory for all who are able to do so. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul zakat
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul alms-giving
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This second pillar requires that Muslims pray 5 times a day, facing the direction of Mecca. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul salat
\b0 \ulnone  \
<Tse> \

\b \
3. 
\b0 Name these literary fictional languages from\'a0descrpitions FTPE: \
[10] In this language you will hear some words like Duckspeak, bellyfeel, crimethink, and unperson. It is from the book 
\i 1984
\i0 . \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Newspeak
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] Words in this Russian based-language are Platties, chelloveck, britva, droog. Alex uses it in 
\i A Clockwork Orange
\i0 . \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Nadsat
\b0 \ulnone  slang \
[10] Hrududu, marli, ni-frith, and hrair are words in this language, spoken by bunnies in 
\i Watership Down
\i0 . \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Lapine
\b0 \ulnone  language \
<Chen> \
\
4. Name these surrealist paintings FTPE: \
[10] This famous painting by Salvador Dal\'ed has cliffs and water in the background, with melting pocketwatches and a face in the foreground. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul The Persistence of Memory
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This Rene Magritte painting depicts a fireplace with a mirror above it, with two candleholders and a clock on the mantel. There is a locomotive coming out of the fireplace. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Time Transfixed
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This first painting of Giorgio de Chirico has the viewer in the shadows of two buildings with columns, has a silhouette of an equestrian statue on the right, and shows the titular structure in the middle, with a light source that seems to be coming directly from the right. \
ANSWER: The 
\b \ul Red Tower
\b0 \ulnone  \
<Tse>\
\
\
5. Answer the following about prominent military leaders of the German Empire:\uc0\u8232 [10]\'a0 As the head of the General Staff in the years leading up to the First World War, this man devised a plan to fight a two-front war by rapidly knocking out France with a massive flanking attack through Belgium, according to his namesake "Plan."\u8232 ANSWER: Alfred, Graf von 
\b \ul Schlieffen
\b0 \ulnone \uc0\u8232 [10]\'a0 The Elder was a Prussian Chief of Staff who engineered the victories in the Second Schleswig War, Austro-Prussian War, and the Franco-Prussian War.\'a0 The Younger was his nephew and successor to Schlieffen as the chief of the General Staff and modified his Plan significantly, but failed to achieve rapid victory over France in WWI.\u8232 ANSWER: Helmuth von 
\b \ul Moltke
\b0 \ulnone \uc0\u8232 [10]\'a0 Called back from retirement at the start of WWI, this General worked with Erich Ludendorff to destroy the Russian Army at Tannenberg.\'a0 In 1925, he was elected President of the Weimar Republic, and was responsible for appointing Hitler as Chancellor in 1933.\u8232 ANSWER: Paul von 
\b \ul Hindenburg
\b0 \ulnone \uc0\u8232 <Cheng> \
\
6. Name these chemists involved in the development of the periodic table FTPE: \
[10] The invention of the periodic table is usually credited to this Russian chemist, who was able to predict the properties of some undiscovered elements with his table. \
ANSWER: Demitri Ivanovich 
\b \ul Mendeleev
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This German chemist proposed the Law of Triads, which involved triplets of elements that have similar properties, such as chlorine, bromine, and iodine. \
ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang 
\b \ul D\'f6bereiner
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This English chemist came up with the law of octaves, which proposed that when placed in order of increasing atomic weight, elements with similar properties recurred at intervals of eight. \
ANSWER: John Alexander Reina 
\b \ul Newlands
\b0 \ulnone  \
<Tse> \
\
7. Name these Moli\'e8re works FTPE: \
[10] Orgon\'92s family set up a trap for the title character, so that Orgon\'92s son Damis, while hidden under a table, can catch the title character trying to seduce Elmire, Orgon\'92s wife. The plan was to prove to Orgon that the title character isn\'92t as righteous as he seems in this play. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Tartuffe
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] Nicole, Lucile\'92s maid, is in love with Covielle, who is the lackey of Cl\'e9onte who is in love with Lucile. Lucile is the daughter of title character Monsieur Jourdain in this com\'e9die-ballet whose title is meant to be an oxymoron. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul The Bourgeois Gentleman
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] While many comedies from the time contained asides given to the audience while the other characters don\'92t notice, the characters in this play demand to know to whom these asides are being delivered. It is said that Moli\'e8re himself played Harpagon, the title character in this five-act satirical comedy. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul L\'92Avare
\b0 \ulnone  or 
\b \ul The Miser
\b0 \ulnone  \
\'a0<Tse>\
\
8. Answer these questions about friction FTPE: \
[10] Deceleration caused by friction between an object and air molecules is called this. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul air resistance
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] Tires and ball bearings are able to change sliding friction into this kind of friction, so that a vehicle will experience less deceleration. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul rolling
\b0 \ulnone  friction \
[10] The amount of kinetic energy that is converted to heat is given by the constant of kinetic friction times the integral of this force. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul normal
\b0 \ulnone  force \
\'a0<Tse> \
\
9. FTPE name these things about music before 1600:\uc0\u8232 [10] The predominant type of chant sung by monks was this kind, named for a pope and contrasted with Ambrosian chant. It developed into Organum and used modes from the Dorian system.\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Gregorian
\b0 \ulnone  chant\uc0\u8232 [10] These were secular pieces of music that were written for multiple parts. Monteverdi's 8th book of these was entitled The Battle of Tancred and Clorinda and they are contrasted with motets.\u8232 ANSWER: 
\b \ul Madrigals
\b0 \ulnone  (prompt on "ricercare")\uc0\u8232 [10] This Italian composer is probably the most famous renaissance composer, writing the Pope Marcellus Mass along with a book of madrigals that he didn't like.\u8232 ANSWER: Giovanni 
\b \ul Pierluigi
\b0 \ulnone  da 
\b \ul Palestrina
\b0 \ulnone  (accept either underlined portion)\uc0\u8232 <Dees> \
\uc0\u8232 10. It was used in cities like Copal and Tikan. FTPE:\
[10] The only deciphered Mesoamerican writing system, the symbols this used were thought to have been adopted from the Olmec and the Epi-Olmec, but now seems to be the original writing in Mesoamerica. \
Answer: 
\b \ul Maya
\b0 \ulnone  script\
[10] Maya Script is an example of this partly logographic writing system, which comes from the Greek for "sacred carvings", and is commonly used to refer to the Egyptians.\
Answer: 
\b \ul Hieroglyphs
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] Mayan Script was found at the Temple of Inscriptions which was dedicated to the funeral of K'inich Janaab' Pakal at this archaeological site near the Ucumacinta River. \
Answer: 
\b \ul Palenque
\b0 \ulnone \
\
11. Identify these 20th Century philosophers FTPE: \
[10] This French existentialist catalogued his beliefs in 
\i Being and Nothingness
\i0 , but is most well known for applying his beliefs to fiction like the plays
\i  The Flies
\i0  and 
\i No Exit
\i0 . \
ANSWER: Jean-Paul 
\b \ul Sartre
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This German controversially collaborated with the Nazis, marring his reputation built on works like 
\i Being and Time
\i0  inspired by the phenomenology of Husserl. \
ANSWER: Martin 
\b \ul Heidegger
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This Algerian-French deconstructivist authored 
\i Of Grammatology
\i0  which analyzes the relationship of speech and writing in Western culture, along with 
\i Writing and Difference
\i0  and 
\i Speech and Phenomena.
\i0  \
ANSWER: Jacques 
\b \ul Derrida
\b0 \ulnone  \
\'a0<Dees> \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0

\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 12. It chronicles the obese Ignatius J. Reilly living with his mother in New Orleans, attempting jobs at Levy Pants and Paradise Vendors before escaping with his pseudo-girlfriend, Myra Minkoff. FTPE: \
[10] Name this novel. \
ANSWER: A 
\b \ul Confederacy of Dunces
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This author of A Confederacy of Dunces committed suicide more than a decade before his magnum opus was published. \
ANSWER: John Kennedy 
\b \ul Toole
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] A Confederacy of Dunces is set up a bit like this author\'92s 
\i Consolation of Philosophy
\i0 , Ignatius Reilly\'92s favorite book. It was written while its author was in prison awaiting execution. \
ANSWER: Anicius Manlius Severinus 
\b \ul Boethius
\b0 \ulnone  \
<Tabachnick> \
\
13. Give these things related to a venereal disease FTPE:\'a0 \
[10] This curable STD is caused by a spirochete, and victims include Paul Gauguin, Henry VIII, and Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec.\'a0 \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul syphilis
\b0 \ulnone \'a0 \
[10] This unethical syphilis experiment in Alabama was performed on a group of 600 blacks, who were left untreated so that the course of the disease could be followed.\'a0 \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Tuskegee
\b0 \ulnone  syphilis study\'a0 \
[10] This type of lesion forms at the point of contact with a spirochete in primary syphilis, about 10-90 days after exposure.\'a0 \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul chancre
\b0 \ulnone \'a0 \
<Tse> \
\
14. Name these parts of a cathedral FTPE:\uc0\u8232 [10] This part is associated with Jesus\'92 head, and is usually the location of mosaics, paintings, and various other iconographies.\'a0 \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul apse
\b0 \ulnone \'a0 \
[10] This is the location of the altar, and is associated with Jesus\'92 heart.\'a0 \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul crossing
\b0 \ulnone \'a0 \
[10] This is located under the crossing, and is where relics are stored.\'a0 \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul crypt
\b0 \ulnone \'a0 \
<Tse> \
\
15. Name these cities in Pakistan, FTPE: \
[10] Its largest city. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Karachi
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] Its capital, constructed in the 1960s. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Islamabad
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This city just south of Islamabad served as the nation's capital while the latter was being constructed. In 2007 Benazir Bhutto was assassinated in its Liaquat National Park. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Rawalpindi
\b0 \ulnone  \
<Tabachnick>\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 16. In 1898, a conflict occurred between the United States and Spain. Answer the following FTPE. \
[10] The Spanish-American War was fought over the independence of this nation, which was previously controlled by Spain. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Cuba
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] Part of the reason the Americans joined the Cuban fight for independence was the explosion of this ship on the coast of Cuba. \
ANSWER: U.S.S. 
\b \ul Maine
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] The Battle of San Juan Hill also included the assault of this hill by Theodore Roosevelt and his Rough Riders. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Kettle
\b0 \ulnone  Hill \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b \cf0 <
\b0 Gates> \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 17. FTPE, answer these related questions about a novella: \
[10] This novella uses the story-within-a-story device, with an unnamed narrator recounting another character's retelling of his journey. The protagonist arrives at the Central Station and discovers that his steamship has been sunk. After repairing it, he sets out to find Kurtz, the anti-hero of the story, whose last words when he dies are \'93The horror! The horror!\'94 \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Heart of Darkness
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] Almost 75 years after Heart of Darkness was written, this author published an essay criticizing it, called 
\i An Image of Africa: Racism in Conrad's \'93Heart of Darkness\'94
\i0 . In it, he accuses Conrad of perpetuating xenophobic stereotypes of Africans. This author was himself criticized by some for his criticism of Conrad. \
ANSWER: Chinua 
\b \ul Achebe
\b0 \ulnone  or Albert Chinualumogu 
\b \ul Achebe
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] This 1979 film directed by Francis Ford Coppola is an adaptation of Heart of Darkness, telling the story of Captain Benjamin Willard, who is sent into the jungles of Vietnam to assassinate Colonel Kurtz. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Apocalypse Now
\b0 \ulnone  \
<Chen> \
\
18. Answer the following about real-life places Odysseus may have visited during his long detour through places that weren't home sweet home, FTPE: \
[10] After killing Polyphemus, Poseidon tries to kill Odysseus with a storm, but Athena guides him to Scheria, the home of these people. Nausicaa finds him and introduces him to her father, King Alcinous. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Phaeacians
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] Some Maltese have been advocating the theory that their island Gozo is this island home of Calypso, who kept Odysseus in sexual imprisonment for seven years. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Ogygia 
\b0 \ulnone \
[10] This channel of water is sometimes suggested as the location of the monsters Scylla and Charybdis, due to its perilous eddies and currents dangerous to any ancient mariner. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Strait of Messina
\b0 \ulnone \'a0 \
\
19. Name these films in the Library of Congress's National Film Registry FTPE: \
[10] The film with the longest title in the Registry is this 1964 with Peter Sellers playing the title role, among others. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Dr. Strangelove
\b0 \ulnone  or, How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb \
[10] The Registry contains five movies directed by this early director, including 
\i Intolerance
\i0  and 
\i The Birth of a Nation
\i0 . \
ANSWER: D(avid) W(ahr) 
\b \ul Griffith
\b0 \ulnone  \
[10] William H. Macy plays car salesmen Jerry Lundegaard, who hires two men to capture his wife in an attempt to scam his father-in-law, in this Coen brothers film, the most recent in the Registry, which, despite its name, takes place mostly in Minnesota. \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Fargo
\b0 \ulnone  \
<Tabachnick> \
\
20. Name these agreements that Russia signed, FTPE:\'a0 \
[10] The Russo-Japanese War was ended by this treaty signed in a town in New Hampshire.\'a0 \
ANSWER: Treaty of 
\b \ul Portsmouth
\b0 \ulnone \'a0 \
[10] This 1689 treaty between Russia and the Qing Empire saw the former relinquish hopes of gaining access to the Sea of Japan and established the border between Russia and China along the Stanovoy Ridge and Argun River.\'a0 \
ANSWER: Treaty of 
\b \ul Nerchinsk
\b0 \ulnone \'a0 \
[10] This 1939 non-agression pact between Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia is named for the foreign ministers of the two nations.\'a0 \
ANSWER: 
\b \ul Molotov-Ribbentrop
\b0 \ulnone  Pact (prompt on \'93Treaty of Non-agression between Germany and the USSR\'94, \'93Nazi-Soviet Pact\'94, \'93German-Soviet Non-agression Pact\'94, etc.)\'a0 \
<Tabachnick> \
\
}