{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\uc1{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset128
Calibri;}{\f2\fcharset128 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset128 SimSun;}{\f4\fcharset178
Times New Roman;}{\f5\fcharset136 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl ;}{\stylesheet{\s0
\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\sa240\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 Normal;}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margt1440\margl1440\margr1440\margb1440
\headery720\footery720\deftab720\pgnstart1\viewkind1\viewscale100\fet0{\*\docvar
{ColorSet}{-1}}{\*\docvar{ColorPos}{-1}}{\*\docvar{StyleSet}{-1}}{\*\docvar{StylePos
}{-1}}\pard\plain\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch
\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28{\header\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow
\sl240\slmult1\sa240\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\fs20\par}{\footer\pard\aspalpha\aspnum
\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\sa240\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\fs20\par}Illinois Open 2007
 - Round 10                             TOSSUPS\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 1) {\lang1279 After giving birth to Ella, she
 purchased a sawmill, which appalls her peers, but was attacked by freed slaves 
while doing rounds.  Her daughter Bonnie Blue died after being thrown from a horse
, which was the last thing holding her third marriage together.  At sixteen, she
 was the most popular young woman in Clayton County, and married Charles Hamilton
 out of spite for Ashley Wilkes.  FTP, identify this resident of Tara and main character
 of Margaret Mitchell's {\i Gone With the Wind}.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1279\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul Scarlett O'Hara}{\lang1033\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 2) A predecessor to it was the Taft-Katsura agreement
 which gave the Americans freedom of action in the Philippines, and Article IV of
 it stipulated that both sides were to refrain from interference in the governing
 of Manchuria.  One party was granted control of Korea, and both sides were to refrain
 from building military fortifications on Sakhalin Island.  FTP, identify the treaty
 negotiated by Theodore Roosevelt that ended the Russo-Japanese War.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b Treaty of} {\b\ul Portsmouth\par
}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1 3) {\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\kerning28 Some of these
 are based on verbunkos and czardas. Six of these were orchestrated by Franz Doppler
 and subsequently renumbered. The eleventh begins {\i lento a cappricio}, and swiftly
 accelerates through 3 sectionstenth one of these is notable for a powerful glissando
 from F5 to G6.The ninth one of these pieces, sometimes titled {\i Carnival in Pesth
}, was also later arranged for piano, violin, and cello. The second one, probably
 the most performed of these, is written in C Minor and contains a {\i lassu} and
 a {\i friss}, both folk dances of a certain European country. Showing deep influences
 from Gypsy and Magyar music, for ten points, name these nineteen pieces originally
 for solo piano, a collective work by Franz Liszt.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab ANSWER: {\b\ul Hungarian Rhapsodies\par
}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1 4) {\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\kerning28 For an electric
 dipole of moment p in an electric field E, this is given by E cross p. A vector
 quantity in general, it is equal to the time derivative of the angular momentum
, or the moment of inertia times the angular acceleration. It has units of energy
 and is often equal in magnitude to a force times a lever arm. FTP, name this quantity
 from physics, the rotational analogue of force, that causes objects to spin faster
.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul torque} (accept {\b\ul moment
})\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 5) {\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\kerning28 They were first settled 
by Bretons from the port of St-Malo, although they were later displaced by the English
. A crisis over them was nearly the cause of war between Britain, France, and Spain
 in 1770. A German cruiser squadron was destroyed by the British off these islands
 in a WWI battle. FTP, name these islands, whose capital is at Port Stanley and 
which are disputed between the UK and Argentina.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER{\b : {\ul Falkland} }Islands{\b  }(also
 accept \u8220\'93Las Malvinas\u8221\'94){\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\kerning1\par
}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 6) This man was involved in an affair with a London 
newspaper in which he severely offended the English and most other European people
. His German father died after being pressured into accepting false medical advice
 by his British mother and had a withered left arm. He loved to wear the Admirals
 uniform that his grandmother Queen Victoria gave him and had a keen interest in
 the navy. He infamously sacked Bismarck over a reassurance treaty with Russia and
 set out to find his nation's place in the sun. For ten points, name this last Kaiser
 of the Second Reich. \par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul Wilhelm II\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\b\ul\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 7) During his career, he had a T.V. show on which he
 did such things as eat mice and wash his hair in battery acid for money. His family
 is extremely poor, eating bread sandwiches for breakfast and frozen waffles for
 dinner. He has occasional selfless moments, such as when he smashed his skull in
 to save the Jews from the reincarnation of Haman, and when he helped Satan work
 through his relationship issues. FTP, name this animated character with a penchant
 for dying and coming back from the dead.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul Kenny} McCormick\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\tx1440{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0
\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 8) {\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0 Some of his early works 
including a mannerist inspired Adam and Eve are now housed in his home in Antwerp
.\~ He traveled to Italy working in Mantua for the Gonzaga as an artist and diplomat
.\~ He painted himself with his first wife Isabella Brandt in {\i The Honeysuckle
 Bower} after his return in 1609.\~ His painting of the {\i Raising of the Cross
} was commissioned for the high altar of Antwerp Cathedral.\~ He painted his second
 wife, Helene Fourment, with just a fur wrap in {\i The Little Fur}.\~ FTP, name
 this Flemish Baroque artist who also painted portraits of Maria de Medici, {\i The
 Garden of Love, The Descent from the Cross, }and {\i The Raising of the Cross}.
{\fs24\par}}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: Peter Paul {\b\ul Rubens}{\fs24\~\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 9) Several of the lesser-known roles of this structure include interaction
 with viruses and their components, the regulation of tumor suppressors and oncogene
 activities, the assembly of signal recognition particals, the modification of small
 RNA strands, and the control of aging and modulating telomerase function. This 
structure contains, among other things, the dense fibrillar component, which is 
responsible for it being stained darkly, and a large concentration of rRNA, which
 it uses for its most important function, the generation of ribosomal subunits. 
FTP, identify this dark staining structure within the nucleus.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:{\b  {\ul Nucleolus}}\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\b\ul\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 10) {\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0 Born at Le Mans in 1133
, his father was Count of Anjou and Count of Maine, but he inherited a claim for
 the English crown from his mother, Empress Matlida.  He is famous for advancing
 the development of Common Law, and he issued the Assize of Clarendon, by which 
trial by jury became standard.  Eventually, his mother's claim on the English crown
 was realized, and he took the English throne in 1154.  By the end of his reign 
he controlled not only England and his father's lands in France, but also Ireland
, Normandy, Aquitaine, Gascony, Nantes, and parts of Scotland and Wales.  For ten
 points, name this English King, the first of the Plantagenet or Angevin rulers.
\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: King {\b\ul Henry II} of England\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 11) In this work, the author famously claims that \u8220\'93philosophical
 decisions are nothing but the reflections of common life, methodized and corrected
.\u8221\'94 In its fourth section \u8220\'93Sceptical Doubts Concerning the Operations
 of the Understanding\u8221\'94, the philosopher claims that reasoning could not
 be based on immediate sense experience. In this work, the philosopher defined causation
 as a belief, and examines four problems: \u8220\'93Liberty and Necessity,\u8221
\'94 \u8220\'93Reason of Animals,\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93Miracles,\u8221\'94 and \u8220
\'93Particular Providence and a Future State.\u8221\'94 Written by a Scottish philosopher
, for ten points, name this most famous epistemological work of David Hume. \par
}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1279
\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER: An{\b  {\ul Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding}}{\dbch
\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\kerning28\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 12) {\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0 In a game of
 craps, if the shooter's point number is five, calculate the probability of the 
shooter's passing within two rolls using two fair six-sided dice.  In order to pass
, the shooter has to roll the point number before rolling a seven, so one can either
 roll the point on the first roll or dodge a seven on the first and roll point on
 the second roll.  FTP, calculate the odds of either rolling a five in one roll 
or rolling a non-seven on the first and rolling a five on the second roll.\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul 47/243\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 13) {\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1279\kerning1 The Aztecs thought
 that Hernan Cortes was this god, as he was depicted as being light-skinned and 
bearded.  The twin brother of Xolotl, his heart became the morning-star, and he 
introduced agriculture, maize, and the arts.  Created when Ometeotl breathed upon
 the earth, when he created the human race, he took the bones and ashes from four
 previous attempts and combined them with his own blood.  FTP, identify the Aztec
 deity known as the 'feathered serpent'.\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1279
\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER:  {\b\ul Quetzalcoatl} (do not accept Kukulcan, Tohil, 9 Wind
, Edahior Eke'emaxi, or Gukumatz){\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\kerning28\par
}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1 14) {\lang1279 In his 1972 Princeton yearbook
 entry, he said he hoped to join the Supreme Court.  While a judge for the Third
 Circuit in Philadelphia, he taught law at Seton Hall University.  His work in the
 1980s for Edwin Meese, Reagan}\u8217\'92{\lang1279 s Attorney General, proved that
 he was enough of a Republican for a later Reagan admirer.  For ten points, name
 this Supreme Court Justice, appointed in 2006 by George W. Bush following the failed
 nomination of Harriet Myers.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1279\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER: Samuel {\b\ul Alito{\lang1033\par}}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\b\ul\dbch\af2
\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 15) {\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0 Near the beginning of this work, 
it includes a description of a scene at a party, wherein the author notices a woman
 and diagnoses various physical symptoms as an infection caused by an injection 
in \u8220\'93Irma\u8217\'92s Injection.\u8221\'94  This work describes the title
 objects as a means of wish-fufillment, although critics panned some of this book
\u8217\'92s examples as having originated as unconscious experiences of the author
.  FTP, name this seminal work of Sigmund Freud that describes the therapeutic analysis
 of the title concepts. \par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\i The {\b\ul Interpretation of Dreams}}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 16) {\lang1025 This novel opens with the protagonist
 traveling to finish a deal involving the sale of the Carfax estate, and while there
 contracts a }{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\u8216\'91}{\lang1025 violent brain fever
}{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\u8217\'92}{\lang1025 .  One character is being pursued
 by three suitors, including the proprietor of an insane asylum, where Renfield 
is awaiting the arrival of his }{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\u8216\'91}{\lang1025
Master}{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\u8217\'92}{\lang1025 .  Gypsies, followers of
 the title character, hold up Dr. Seward and Quincey Morris in their pursuit, but
 in the end the title character is killed and Mina is saved.  For ten points, identify
 the Stoker novel in which Abraham van Helsing and Jonathan Harker pursue the titular
 vampire.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:   {\b\ul Dracula\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f4\lang1025\fs20\kerning28
\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 17) {\lang1025 In this work, one character loses two
 rigged games of dice, and as a result he and his five brothers must leave the kingdom
 for twelve years, during which they stayed in the 'house of lac'.  That same character
 refuses to enter heaven unless his dog is allowed in, and thanks to a statement
 made by Kunti, her five sons all were wed to Draupadi.  The climax of this narrative
 poem occurs after Yudhisthira and his brothers return and declare war on the Kauravas
.  For ten points, identify this Indian epic which contains the {\i Bhagavad Gita
}.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\caps\dbch\af1\loch\af0
\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Answer{\caps0 : {\b\ul Mahabharata} (do not accept
 Bhagavad Gita)\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f4\lang1025\fs20\kerning28
\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 18) One of the main characters in it said that looking
 at a map inside the Bible of the Dead Sea made him thirsty. The play opens with
 one of the main characters whose feet hurt struggle to remove a boot. Pozzo is 
mistaken for the title character as he arrives in a cart attached to Lucky, whose
 neck has a sore. The surroundings in it include an almost-barren tree, and Estragon
 suggests that he could hang himself from that, but Vladamir doesn\u8217\'92t want
 to be alone. For ten points, name this Beckett play about waiting for a man who
 never comes. \par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul Waiting for Godot} or {\b\ul En attendant Godot}\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 19) {\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\fs24\kerning28 A {\fs20 first order
 correction to this rule is granted by the fugacity and activity coefficients. Asiotropes
 deviate from this law, while it is obeyed by ideal solutions. It is the complement
 of Henry's Law. For ten points, give this law which gives the partial pressure 
of a component of a solution as mole fraction times the pressure of the pure substance
.\par}}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul Raoult's Law }\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 20) This figure\u8217\'92s unique hair is known as {\i jatamakuta
} [jah-tuh-MAH-coo-tuh], through which a river flowed. This being\u8217\'92s throat
 is discolored due to poison. This deity is often worshiped in the form of a {\i
linga}, the phallic compliment of the {\i yoni} of his consort, Parvati [PAR-vah
-tee], with whom he fathered Skanda [SKAHN-duh] and Ganesa [guh-NEE-sha]. FTP, name
 this member of the {\i trimurti} [tree-MUR-tee]; the three-eyed embodiment of restoration
 and destruction in Hinduism.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER: {\b\ul Siva} (or {\b\ul Nataraja} or {\b\ul Ardhanarisvara
} or {\b\ul Pasupati}; prompt on {\b\ul Sambhu} or {\b\ul Sankara} or {\b\ul Mahesa
} or {\b\ul Mahadeva})\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 BONUSES\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 1) {\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0 He wrote such works as
 {\i The Return of the Native }and {\i A Pair of Blue Eyes}. F10PE:\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] Name this man, who also wrote about a woman who
 becomes a dairymaid and marries Angel Clare, who leaves her because of her past
.  Later, she stabs him and gets hanged.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: Thomas {\b\ul Hardy}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] Name the novel previously described.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER {\b\i\ul Tess of the D\u8217\'92Urbervilles}\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] In addition to {\i Tess of the D\u8217\'92Urbervilles
}, Thomas Hardy also wrote this work, about the title stonemason whose wife Arabella
 deserts him.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\i\ul Jude The Obscure\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 2) {\lang1279 After being swept by the Arizona
 Diamondbacks, the Chicago Cubs further proved why they suck.  Answer the following
 about some recent examples of Cub ineptitude, FTSNOP.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1279\fs20\kerning28 [10] In Game 6 of the 2003 NLCS, the Cubs were
 five outs away from winning the series this left fielder was attempting to make
 a play on a foul ball when Steve Bartman interfered with.  The Cubs ended up losing
 Games 6 and 7.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1279\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul M}oises {\b\ul Alou\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1279\fs20\kerning28 [5/5] On June 1, 2007, these two teammates, 
one a pitcher and one a catcher, got into a fight at the top of the fifth, with 
the catcher getting a bloody lip and subsequently being traded.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1279\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul C}arlos {\b\ul Zambrano}, Michael
 {\b\ul Barrett\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1279\fs20\kerning28 [10] Going back to 2003, on June 3 Sammy Sosa
 was ejected and suspended for seven games for using this.  Afterwards, he claimed
 that he only used them in batting practice.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1279
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul corked bat}\~(accept knowledgable equivalents, i.e. loaded bat, do not accept references to pine tar)
{\lang1033\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\b\ul\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1 3) {\kerning28 Identify some figures of the Harlem Renaissance
 FTPE.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] This author of {\i A Dream Deferred} collected 
his poetry in {\i The Weary Blues}. His other works include {\i The Negro Speaks
 of Rivers}.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: Langston {\b\ul Hughes}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] This female author of the Harlem Renaissance wrote
 about Janie and Tea Cake in {\i Their Eyes Were Watching God.}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: Zora Neale {\b\ul Hurston}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] This poet wrote {\i The Black Christ and Other 
Poems} and {\i Long Way to Heaven}{\ul .\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: Countee {\b\ul Cullen\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1 4) {\kerning28 Conduct the following boolean
 logical operations FTPE.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] 1 AND 1\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul 1} or {\b\ul true\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] 1 XOR 1\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul 0} or {\b\ul false\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] 0 AND 1 OR 0\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul 0} or {\b\ul false}{\lang1279\kerning1\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 5) Abu Bakr was the first of these rulers, whose name means \u8220
\'93successor.\u8221\'94 The first four are known as the \u8220\'93rightly guided
.\u8221\'94 FTPE:\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 [10] Give this Arabic term for the early rulers of the community 
of Muslims.\line ANSWER: {\b\ul caliph}s\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 [10] This fourth and last of the \u8220\'93rightly guided\u8221\'94
 caliphs faced a number of rebellions and was assassinated in 660 CE. He is buried
 in Al-Najaf, Iraq.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER: \u8216\'91{\b\ul Ali} ibn Abi Talib\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 [10] \u8216\'91Ali is venerated in this sect of Islam, which split
 with the Sunnite sect over the issue of his succession.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER: {\b\ul Shi\u8217\'92i}te (or {\b\ul Shi\u8217\'92a}h)\par
}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1 6) {\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\kerning28 Identify these
 George Eliot novels from descriptions, F10PE:\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] This novel focuses on the life of Dorothea Brooke
, who marries her first husbands brother after he crushes her illusions and dies
.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\i\ul Middlemarch}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] In this novel, Tom Tulliver attempts to keep his
 sister Maggie from marrying Philip, so she instead runs off with her cousin\u8217
\'92s fianc\u233\'e9.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\i The {\b\ul Mill On the Floss}}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] This work\u8217\'92s namesake \u8216\'91weaver 
of Raveloe\u8217\'92 is asleep due to his narcolepsy while his gold is stolen by
 Dunston Cass. He later adopts the orphan Eppie.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:{\i  {\b\ul Silas Marner{\b0 : The Weaver of Raveloe\par}
}}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1 7) {\kerning28 Name these famous American businessmen
 FTPE.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] His wealth was based on shipping and railroads 
and he was often called"The Commodore."\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: Cornelius {\b\ul Vanderbilt\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] He founded the company that eventually became US
 Steel and is famous for his support of public libraries.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: Andrew {\b\ul Carnegie\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] This founder of Standard Oil was the first billionaire
 in the United States.  His philanthropy included donations to several colleges, 
including one to the University of Chicago, which he called "the best investment
 I ever made."\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: John D. {\b\ul Rockefeller}{\kerning1\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 8) {\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\kerning28 Identify the following types
 of faulty logic, F10PE.\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] This type of faulty logic uses the premise as the conclusion
. For instance, \u8220\'93The sky is blue because blue is the color of the sky.\u8221
\'94\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul circular} logic\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] This logical fallacy is named from the Latin for \u8220\'93
does not follow\u8221\'94. An example would be \u8220\'93All humans are mammals. 
I am a mammal. Therefore, I am a human.\u8221\'94\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul non sequitur\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] This type of logical fallacy is an argument based on attacking
 the person, instead of the argument. \par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1279
\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER: {\b\ul ad hominem\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 9) {\lang1279 Titans, the precursor to the Olympian gods, were quite
 powerful in their own right, but obviously inferior.  Name some of them, FTPE.\par
}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1279
\fs20\kerning1 [10] A son of Iapetus and the father of the Pleiades, he has to carry
 the weight of the world on his shoulders.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1279
\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER:  {\b\ul Atlas\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1279
\fs20\kerning1 [10] The husband of Tethys, he was the lord of the sea before surrendering
 to Poseidon.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1279
\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER:  {\b\ul Oceanus\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1279
\fs20\kerning1 [10] The personification of custom and law, she is often depicted
 with a pair of scales.  She was also the mother of the Fates and the goddesses 
of the seasons.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1279
\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER:  {\b\ul Themis\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\b\ul\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 10) {\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\kerning28 Name some things related
 to an economic entity for ten points each. \par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] The board of governors of it get 14 year terms. Its previous
 chairman was famously cryptic and spoke of irrational exuberance in a speech in
 1996. \par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: The {\b\ul Federal Reserve} or the {\b\ul Fed}\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] This is the rate at which depository institutions trade balances
 available at the Federal Reserve to another institution overnight.  \par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: The {\b\ul federal funds } or {\b\ul fed funds{\ulnone  
}}rate\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] In turn, the regional banks can give member banks short term
 loans at this rate. It can also be used to determine the present value of future
 cash flows.  \par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: The {\b\ul discount} rate{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1279
\kerning1\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\b\ul\dbch\af2\loch\af0
\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 11) Identify these concepts related to galaxies FTPE
.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] Galaxies are often classified by their shape. This
 shape with ill-defined spiral arms is an intermediate between spiral and elliptical
 galaxies.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul Lenticular} Galaxies\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] The stars within galaxies are divided into populations
 based on their characteristics. This population of older stars is often found in
 the galactic halo.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: Population {\b\ul II\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] It is believed that the centers of most galaxies
 contain a super massive one of these.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul Black Hole\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 12) {\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0 Answer these questions
 about a novel FTPE.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] Name this novel, whose characters include Charles
 Bingley, William Collins, and Jane and Lydia, the sisters of the female protagonist
. \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\i\ul Pride and Prejudice}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] For five points each, name the male and female 
protagonists of {\i Pride and Prejudice}.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWERS: {\b\ul Elizabeth} Bennett (accept \u8220\'93
Lizzy\u8221\'94) and Fitzwilliam {\b\ul Darcy}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] Name the author of {\i Pride and Prejudice}.\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: Jane {\b\ul Austen\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 13) Answer the following about a theory from evolutionary biology
 FTPE.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] This theory postulates that evolution occurs in large bursts
, followed by long periods of stasis.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul punctuated equilibrium}\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] One of these is an evolutionary event in which a significant
 percentage of a population or species is killed or otherwise prevented from reproducing
.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:{\b  {\ul bottleneck}\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] Defined by Ernst Mayr, this is the effect of establishing a
 new population with much smaller number of individuals that exhibit less genetic
 variation than the original population.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:{\b  {\ul Founder Effect}}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 14) This composer\u8217\'92s brother Michael was organist
 at Salzburg. He himself was patronized by the F\u184\'b8rnbergs and Esterh\u183
\'b7zys. FTPE\u8230\'85\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] Name this Austrian composer of 104 symphonies.\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: Franz Joseph {\b\ul Haydn}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] Haydn\u8217\'92s last 12 symphonies are named for
 this English city, where the namesake event of the {\i\u8220\'93Miracle\u8221\'94
 Symphony} took place. Haydn shook its complacent crowds with his {\i\u8220\'93Surprise
\u8221\'94 Symphony}.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul London}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] Haydn\u8217\'92s efforts in this programmatic genre
 include {\i The Seasons} and {\i The Creation}. Notable examples by other composers
 include {\i Judas Maccabaeus} and {\i Christ on the Mount of Olives}.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0
\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul oratorio\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0
\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 15) {\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0 Identify the following relating 
to Kurt Vonnegut\u8217\'92s novel {\i Slaughterhouse Five} for ten points each. 
\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] The city in which the title edifice is located. Vonnegut, as
 a POW, survived an intensive allied firebombing and a subsequent firestorm which
 devastated this ancient capital of Saxony.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:{\b\ul  Dresden\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] Aliens from this planet abduct Billy Pilgrim and put him on
 display in a museum along with Montana Wildhack, a pornographic movie star.\par
}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:{\b\ul  Tralfamadore\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] The author of several little-known science fiction books who
 is in charge of the paper routes in Billy Pilgrim\u8217\'92s hometown.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0
\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: Kilgore {\b\ul Trout}{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0
\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\f5\lang1028\fs20\kerning28
\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0
\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 16) {\lang1028 Identify the following lakes, FTPE.\par}
}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0
\lang1028\fs20\kerning28 [10] This Minnesota lake is the source for the Mississippi
 River.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0
\lang1028\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  Lake {\b\ul Itasca\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0
\lang1028\fs20\kerning28 [10] Drained by the Benue river, this African lake has 
shrunk to to one-sixth its former size due to damming and a lack of rainfall.\par
}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0
\lang1028\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  Lake {\b\ul Chad\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0
\lang1028\fs20\kerning28 [10] Located in the Fort Smith region, this lake is located
 near Echo and Sawmill Bays and is the largest lake of Canada and has five arms, 
including Keith and McTavish.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0
\lang1028\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul Great Bear}\~Lake\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\b\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 17) Name these Greek orators from clues FTPE.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] He argued against the growing power of Philip II
 of Macedon, and then later against Philip's son, Alexander.  One of his greatest
 orations was "On the Crown," in which he attacked those who would have peace with
 Macedon.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul Demosthenes\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] Most of his extant work is organized in dialogs
, in which he is never a participant.  Some of his works include {\i Symposium }
and {\i Meno}.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul Plato\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] One of the great Greek tragedians, his extant play
 include Antigone, Oedipus Rex, and Ajax.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul Sophocles{\ulnone\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\par}}
}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 18) First stated by Guildberg and Waage, this principle of chemistry
 allows one to determine the reaction quotient for non-equilibrium systems. F10PE
:\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] Name this law that, in its standard form, uses the concentrations
 of reactants over the concentrations of products raised to certain powers.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: the law of {\b\ul mass action}\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] The aforementioned powers in the law of mass action are these
 numbers, which appear before species when a reaction equation is written out and
 indicate the number of molecules the species participating.\line ANSWER: {\b\ul
stoichiometric} coefficients (or {\b\ul stoichiometric} numbers; accept word forms
 like {\b\ul stoichiometry})\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] The law of mass action is used on an equilibrium system to 
define this dimensionless, temperature-dependent value symbolized K that determines
, for example, how much of a product results from given amounts of reactants.\par
}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: the {\b\ul reaction constant}\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 19) Identify these Renaissance sculptures, F10PE.{\fs24\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] This bronze sculpture depicts its subject anachronistically
 dressed in then-current Italian fashion. Its subject is depicted with its foot 
on the head of a giant.{\fs24\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs24\kerning28\~\~\~\~\~\~{\fs20 ANSWER: {\b\i\ul David}}\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] This marble sculpture depicts an angel about to thrust an \u8220
\'93arrow of divine love\u8221\'94 straight into the heart of a woman. It depicts
 a vision held by the woman who is the subject of the sculpture.{\fs24\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs24\kerning28\~\~\~\~\~\~{\fs20 ANSWER:\~ {\i The} {\b\i\ul Ecstasy of Saint Teresa
}}\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] This sculpture in marble depicts a classical hero after slaying
 a monster that could turn would-be heroes into stone with a look.\~ The subject
 is holding a sword and the other title object.{\fs24\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs24\kerning28\~\~\~\~\~\~{\fs20 ANSWER: {\b\i\ul Perseus with the Head of Medusa
}}\~\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 20) Name the following Revolutionary War battles from
 clues FTPE.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] General Israel Putnam was in charge of the Continental
 forces, and the battle actually took place on Breed's Hill.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: the Battle of {\b\ul Bunker Hill\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] This siege led to the surrender of Lord Cornwallis
's army and the effective end of the Revolutionary War, though the hostilities dragged
 until 1793.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: the Battle of {\b\ul Yorktown\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] An important victory for the Patriots in the southern
 theater, the volunteer Patriot militia defeated a force of British loyalists led
 by Major Patrick Ferguson who were detached from Cornwallis's army and so halted
 Cornwallis's invasion of North Carolina.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: the Battle of {\b\ul King's Mountain\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Name these female world leaders from clues FTSNOP.\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [5] Her patronage of the arts and culture in 18th century
 Russia, as well as the Russian victory over the Turks and partition of Poland gave
 her the moniker "the Great."\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul Catherine} II\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] This leader of the UK during the Falklands War 
supported Ronald Regan's policy of deterrence against the Soviets, but her uncompromising
 personality led to her ousting in an internal party ballot in 1990.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: Margaret Hilda {\b\ul Thatcher\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [15] Currently under arrest for her alleged involvement
 in the disappearance of an activist caused by her signing decrees allowing the 
armed forces to take action against subversives, this woman served as President 
of Argentina from 1974 to 1976.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: Isabel Martinez {\b\ul de Peron\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\b\ul\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28\par}

}