{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\uc1{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset128
Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset128 Calibri;}{\f3\fcharset128 SimSun;}{\f4\fcharset178
Times New Roman;}{\f5\fcharset136 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl ;}{\stylesheet{\s0
\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\sa240\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 Normal;}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margt1440\margl1440\margr1440\margb1440
\headery720\footery720\deftab720\pgnstart1\viewkind1\viewscale100\fet0{\*\docvar
{ColorSet}{-1}}{\*\docvar{ColorPos}{-1}}{\*\docvar{StyleSet}{-1}}{\*\docvar{StylePos
}{-1}}\pard\plain\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af1\loch\af0
\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1{\header\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1
\sa240\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\fs20\par}{\footer\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240
\slmult1\sa240\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\fs20\par}Illinois Open 2007 - Round 9\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 1) He supported himself during his travels by tentmaking, a fact 
he alludes to often in his writing. His preaching at Ephesus caused a riot among
 the silversmiths of the town, who feared the loss of their business making idols
 of Diana. He supposedly converted the island of Malta to Christianity after landing
 there following a shipwreck. FTP, name this Apostle, who famously converted after
 being blinded on the road to Damascus.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER: {\b\ul Paul\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 2) Their worldwide headquarters is located at Flag Land
 Base in Clearwater, Florida, while the Pacific Area Command Base in L.A. oversees
 their West Coast operations. Their elite staff is part of Sea Org, which operates
 a small fleet of cruise vessels around the globe. Known for swift and harsh legal
 action against any perceived opponents, FTP, what cult might call down the wrath
 of Xenu upon you for negging this tossup?\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b Church of {\ul Scientology\par}}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\b\ul\dbch\af2\loch\af0
\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 3) In his essay \u8220\'93The Methods of Ethnology\u8221\'94, this
 anthropologist expressed the belief that culture is dynamic.  He propagated a system
 of field work characterized by empiricism, ethnography, and an understanding of
 culture as relative, and also wrote {\i Race, Language, and Culture, }and {\i The
 History of the American Race. }FTP, name this physical anthropologist, who established
 some of the fundamental principles of anthropology in his work {\i The Mind of 
Primitive Man}.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: Franz {\b\ul Boas\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\b\ul\dbch\af2\loch\af0
\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 4) The author of this work describes the title concept as \u8220
\'93an artificial man in which sovereignty is the soul, officers the joints, rewards
 and punishments the nerves, wealth its strength, safety its business, counselors
 its memory, equity and law its reason and will, peace its health, sedition its 
sickness, and civil war its death.\u8221\'94 In this work, the author advances the
 theory of the social contract in this work, and endorses monarchy as the most stable
 form of government. Describing human life as \u8220\'93poor, nasty, brutish, and
 short\u8221\'94, for ten points, identify this treatise on government and other
 things, the most famous work of British philosopher Thomas Hobbes.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1279\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER: {\b\ul Leviathan{\lang1033\par}}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\b\ul\dbch\af1\loch\af0
\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 5) In this work, the title character uses opium and 
is also an aficionado of gemstones and obscure musical instruments.{\lang1025   
He blackmails the doctor Alan Campbell into disposing of a dead body.  Sybil Vane
 calls the title character }{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\u8220\'93}{\lang1025 Prince
 Charming}{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\u8221\'94}{\lang1025  and kills herself after
 being abandoned him, and after he offers to show Basil Hallward his soul, he stabs
 Basil to death.  His 18 year long descent into decadence can be traced back to 
a book from Lord Henry. The title character dies when he stabs the title object 
with a dagger. For ten points, name this only novel written by Oscar Wilde.\par}
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: The{\b  {\ul Picture of Dorian Gray}}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 6) The location of this battle is bordered on the south
 by the Qattara depression, and the second day of fighting here saw a counterattack
 led by General Claude Auchinleck.  The winning side took the offensive through 
the launch of Operation Lightfoot, and Axis forces began a retreat after an attack
 was launched at Kidney Ridge.  Becoming a two-front battle after the Allied forces
 landed in Morocco, FTP, identify the WWII battle in North Africa which saw Field
 Marshal Bernard Montgomery triumph over Erwin Rommel.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  Battle of {\b\ul El Alamein\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 7) {\lang1025 When he is introduced, he reads the narrator
's mind using an }{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\u8220\'93}{\lang1025 air of intuition
}{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\u8221\'94}{\lang1025 , and after being insulted in 
Vienna, he gets revenge against Minister D.  After obtaining the title object for
 a prefect, he swaps it with a fake, on which is written }{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\u8220\'93}{\lang1025 So funereal a design, if it is not worthy of Atreus, is
 worthy of Thyestes.}{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\u8221\'94}{\lang1025   In his first
 appearance he places an advertisement in the paper, which leads a sailor to inquire
 about a missing orangutan.  For ten points, identify this fictional detective who
 worked in the fictional Rue Morgue and whose creator was Edgar Allan Poe.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1025\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  C. Auguste {\b\ul Dupin\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 8) In defending the choice by this group not to investigate
 the KKK, John Wood compared their tactics to 'illegal whiskey-making', and a similar
 group was formed under the McCarran Act.  Its founding was spearheaded by Martin
 Dies, and included in its ranks John Rankin and Richard Nixon.  In 1969, it was
 renamed the Internal Security Committee, but it gained infamy when Edward Dmytryk
, Lester Cole, and eight others tried to invoke the Fifth Amendment, and became 
known as the Hollywood Ten.  FTP, identify the Congressional committee that conducted
 investigations into Communist activities.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul HUAC} (accept House Un-American Activities
 Committee or Committee on Un-American Activities)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 9){\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0 Find the variance
 of the following list of numbers:  1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 10.  To calculate the variance
, one must find the average,  and subsequently sum the squares of the differences
 between each number and the mean, and divide the sum by the sample size minus one
.  FTP, since the mean is five, find the sum of four squared plus three squared 
plus one squared plus one squared plus two squared plus five squared, and then divide
 that sum by five.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul 56/5}\~(accept 11.2)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 10) Originally created in 1923, various versions of this work were
 created in bronze, white and black marble, including a bronze version in the Art
 Institute.\~ It suggests the movement of the titular animal rather than being a
 physical representation of it.\~ One version was the subject of a 1927 US Customs
 dispute and court battle over what is art, when a bronze version was seized as 
scrap metal.\~ FTP, name this Constantin Brancusi sculpture.\~ {\fs24\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\i\ul Bird in Space}{\fs24\~\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 11) {\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0 This solenoidal quantity
 is related to its dual by the Lorentz transform. The parallel component of this
 quantity is discontinuous at a surface current. For a linear medium, this quantity
 is related to the associated H by the permeability. The circulation of this vector
 field\u8217\'92s dual induces it; that observation is known as Faraday\u8217\'92
s law of induction and relates this field to the electric field. FTP, name this 
quantity from physics symbolized B.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: the {\b\ul magnetic field} (or {\b\ul magnetic
 induction}; prompt on {\b\ul B})\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 12) {\lang1279 This country was the location
 of the Investiture Controversy, which saw the rise of Boleslaw II, who eventually
 ordered the murder of St. Stanislaus.  After the death of Michael Wisniowiecki, 
John Sobieski was elected king of it, and rushed to the aid of Holy Roman Emperor
 Leopold I to fight off a siege by the Turks.  1863 saw the January Uprising led
 by Romauld Traugutt, and during WWII this country developed }\u8220\'93{\lang1279
czolg lekki}\u8221\'94{\lang1279 , or light tanks, that were superior to the Germans
, but could not stand up to a simultaneous German and Soviet invasion.  FTP, identify
 this country, once led by electrician-turned-politican Lech Walesa.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1279\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul Poland{\lang1033\par}}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\b\ul\dbch\af1\loch\af0
\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 13) {\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0 Members of this phylum
 a triploblastic protostomes that may or may not exhibit bilateral symmetry. The
 oldest fossil species, {\i Odontogriphus omalus, }dates back about 500 million 
years. Lacking in body segmentation, members of this phylum possess a muscular foot
 and a mantle, from which they secrete calcium carbonate to form an external shell
, and a tough chitin structure known as a radula. FTP, identify this phylum, which
 encompasses classes like gastropods, cephalopods, and bivalves.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:{\b  {\ul mollusks} (mollusca)\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\b\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 14) {\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1025 One of his 
unfinished poems describes how torches lighted up the sinister features of Geraldine
, who corrupts the heroine Christabel. The narrator compares the wind to a mad Lutanist
 and then to an actor in }{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\u8220\'93{\dbch\af2\loch\af0
\hich\f0\lang1025 Dejection: an Ode,}\u8221\'94{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1025
 and in another of his poems, he describes a dream in which he sees a }\u8220\'93
{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1025 damsel with a dulcimer.}\u8221\'94{\dbch\af2
\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1025   For ten points, identify the British poet who collaborated
 with William Wordsworth on }\u8220\'93{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1025 Lyrical
 Ballads}\u8221\'94{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1025  and wrote about an unlucky
 sailor who shoots an albatross in }\u8220\'93{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1025
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.}\u8221\'94{\f4\lang1025\par}}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1025\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  Samuel Taylor {\b\ul Coleridge\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 15) Farragut's capture of New Orleans in 1862 was part
 of this plan. Although George McClellan and Henry Halleck both formally refuted
 it, it ended up being executed in practice. One pillar of it was a blockade of 
the South to clamp down on trade with Europe. Featuring a drive up the Mississippi
 to cut the Confederacy in two, FTP, name this plan proposed by Winifred Scott to
 slowly strangle the CSA to death.\line ANSWER: {\b\ul Anaconda} Plan\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 16) This procedure was first posited in 1920 to compactly predict
 exceptions to the orbit model of hydrogen. Copper is a notable exception to this
 rule, which incorporates Hund\u8217\'92s rules and the Pauli exclusion principle
 to explain effects not attributable to the principle quantum number. Having a name
 meaning \u8220\'93building up,\u8221\'94 this principle of chemistry explains why
 the 4-s orbital is filled before the 3-p one. For ten points, name this principle
 used to determine the electron configuration of an atom.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: the {\b\ul aufbau} principle\line\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 17) It has its source is the Lasagongma spring in the Himalayas. 
The first systematic Western exploration of the river was in 1866, when a French
 group of explorers ascended up to Yunnan. The Laotian capital of Vientiane lies
 on its banks, and is threatened by pollution generated by Chinese damming of the
 river above. FTP, name this 11{\super th}-longest river in the world and most important
 in Southeast Asia, which runs into the Gulf of Tonkin outside Ho Chi Minh City.
\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER{\b : {\ul Mekong }}River\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\tx3600{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 18) While the original libretto, by Jean-Nicolas
 Bouilly, was written in French, it was translated for German performance by Joseph
 Sonnleithner. The composer for this opera went through four version of the overture
, the third of which is sometimes still performed between acts. {\i The Prisoner
\u8217\'92s Chorus}, from this opera, is an ode to freedom by political prisoners
. It is set in a prison a few miles from Seville, in 1700. The plot centers on Leonore
, attempting to save Floristel from the prison, where he has a hallucination about
 Leonore saving him. Schubert may have sold his schoolbooks to attend the premiere
 of, for ten points, what opera by Ludwig von Beethoven.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\tx3600{\dbch\af2\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28                  ANSWER: {\b\i\ul Fidelio\par
}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\tx3600{\i\ul\dbch\af2
\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 19) {\lang1025 One character in this novel dies from
 drinking poisoned brandy, and as a result her sister enters a self-imposed period
 of silence that lasts nine years.  One character loses three fingers after Jean
 de Satigny reveals his affair with the protagonist's daughter.  After the protagonist
's death, her husband focuses his attention on his granddaughter, Alba, and after
 Bianca and Pedro Tercero are captured, he uses his connections to get them out 
of the country.  For ten points, identify this novel focusing on the Trueba family
 written by Isabel Allende.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1025\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul The House of the Spirits} (accept {\b
\ul La Casa de los Espiritus})\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\b\ul\dbch\af1\loch\af0
\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 20) {\lang1279 One figure used an ox-head as bait to try to catch
 it,and at the beginning of time, it originally lay at the roots of Yggdrasil.When
 Utgard-Loki challenged Thor to pick up a cat's paw, it was really this creature
, and Hymir cut the line when Thor had it hooked like a fish.  One of the children
 of Loki and Angrboda, it is so long that when it circles the earth, it has to swallow
 its tail, and it will kill Thor by vomiting on him.  FTP, identify this long snake
 from Norse myth.\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1279
\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER:  The {\b\ul Midgard serpent} (accept Midgardsorm, World serpent
, Jormungand or Jormungandr){\lang1033\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 1) {\lang1028 Egyptian mythology places a large emphasis on the afterlife
, so they created deities to handle the many tasks concerning the passage of souls
.  Identify the following concerning those deities, FTPE.\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1028
\fs20\kerning1 [10] After a {\lang1033\u8216\'91}negative confession{\lang1033\u8217
\'92}, one{\lang1033\u8217\'92}s heart is weighed against the feather of this deity
.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1028
\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER:  {\b\ul Ma{\lang1033\u8217\'92}at\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1028
\fs20\kerning1 [10] If one was judged to be pure, then you were introduced to this
 god, the ruler of the dead.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1028
\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER:  {\b\ul Osiris} (accept Usiri, prompt on Khenty-Imentin)\par
}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1028
\fs20\kerning1 [10] If one fails, then you are fed to this monster, the {\lang1033
\u8216\'91}eater of the dead{\lang1033\u8217\'92}.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1028
\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER:  {\b\ul Ammit\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\b\ul\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1028
\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1 2) {\lang1279\kerning28 Shows about music have
 been around since before MTV and are still around even though MTV is almost absent
 of music.  FTPE, identify the following music-centered TV shows.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1279\fs20\kerning28 [10] Originally hosted by Bob Horn, Dick Clark
 began hosting it in 1956 and didn't go off the air until 1989.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1279\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul American Bandstand\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1279\fs20\kerning28 [10] This game show aired off and on from 1953
 to 1981 and tested one's ability to identify songs through such games as Melody
 Roulette, Bid a Note, and Tune Countdown.  Currently, a new version hosted by Donny
 Osmond is in the works.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1279\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul Name That Tune\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1279\fs20\kerning28 [10] This VH1 show played music videos, but
 also included little {\lang1033\u8220\'93}bubbles{\lang1033\u8221\'94} of information
 about the song, artist, or aspects of the video itself.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1279
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul Pop-Up Video{\lang1033\par}}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1 3) {\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1025\kerning28 Some
 killers do come to regret their crimes.  From a description, answer the following
 about repentant killers FTPE\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1025\fs20\kerning28 [10] He murders the pawnbroker Alonya Ivanovna, and 
the guilt from the crime consumes him.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1025\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  Rodion Romanovitch {\b\ul Raskolnikov} (prompt
 on Rodya)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1025\fs20\kerning28 [10] In Poe's 'The Cask of Amontillado', he thinks Fortunato
 slighted him, and ends up killing him, but fifty years later he confesses..\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1025\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul Montresor\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1025\fs20\kerning28 [10] In this work, Perry Smith and Dick Hickock murder
 the Clutter family, but before he is hanged, Perry apologizes for what he did.\par
}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1025
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul In Cold Blood}{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\kerning1\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1 4) {\kerning28 Complete the following computations
 relating to factorials FTPE.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] 5 factorial\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul 120\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] 7 factorial divided by 5 factorial\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul 42\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch
\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] 7 factorial divided by 5 factorial minus
 8 factorial divided by 5 factorial\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul -294} (negative 294){\kerning1\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 5) Name each of the following sources of moral guidance in Islam 
FTPE.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 [10] Held to be coeternal with Allah and to have been revealed to
 the Prophet Muhammad by the Archangel Gabriel, this scripture of Islam is divided
 into suras [SIR-uhz].\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER: the {\b\ul Qu\u8217\'92ran\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 [10] These records of sayings and actions of the Prophet form a secondary
 source of authenticity. Notable collections of them are due to al-Bukhari and al
-Hajjaj\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER: {\b\ul Hadith\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 [10] Muftis knowledgeable of the Qu\u8217\'92ran and Hadith can issue
 these formal rulings on unclear points. An egregious and infamous one was issued
 in 1989 by Ayatollah Kohmeini calling for Salman Rushdie\u8217\'92s death.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER: {\b\ul fatwa}s{\b\ul\f5\lang1028\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\b\ul\f5\lang1028\fs20\kerning1\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1 6) {\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\kerning28 Identify these
 pieces of laboratory equipment FTPE\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] This device uses a cathode ray tube to draw, on
 its screen, a trace of an inputted electronic signal.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul oscilloscope}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] This device consists of a coil between two magnetic
 poles. When a current is put through the coil, it causes a needle to deflect. This
 device is used in constructing analog voltmeters and ammeters.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul galvanometer}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] This pendulum like device uses the rotational analog
 of Hooke\u8217\'92s Law to measure small forces.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul torsion balance\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f5\lang1028\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning1 7) {\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\kerning28 Answer the following
 about the unification of Russia F10PE:\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Unification was only possible with the collapse 
of this Mongol Khanate, founded by Batu Khan,  which disintegrated after Grand Duke
 Ivan III cut off Moscow\u8217\'92s tribute payments in 1476. After failing to receive
 reinforcements from Poland, the Mongols were forced to back down from a standoff
 with the Russians on the Ugra River.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul The Golden Horde}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab A second step in this was the conquest of this powerful
 city-state as a buffer against Sweden and Lithuania. It had explored northwards
 to the Arctic and westward into Siberia, extracting tribute from the local tribes
. Alexsandr Nevsky was one of its more noteworthy generals.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul Novgorod}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Ivan was the first Russian autocrat to use this 
title in his correspondence. It is simply the russian translation of the term \u8220
\'93caesar\u8221\'94 and referred to Ivan\u8217\'92s self-granted role as the successor
 to the Roman and Byzantine Empires.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul Tsar\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f5\lang1028\fs20\kerning1\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 8) Identify the following things associated with the Enlightenment
 in France, F10PE.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] This collaboration of many of the intellectuals in France, 
including Rousseau, was the first of its kind. Modern examples of these include 
the Britannica and the Encarta.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b L\u8217\'92{\ul Encyclopedie} (also accept \u8220\'93
Encyclopedia\u8221\'94)\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] This catchall term identifies the intellectuals of the French
 Enlightenment, many of whom worked on \par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul philosophe\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] This {\i philosophe} was the editor-in-chief of {\i L\u8217
\'92Encyclopedie}.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1028
\fs20\kerning1 ANSWER: Denis {\b\ul Diderot}{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\kerning28\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 9) {\lang1025 Given a short description, identify the
 character from Romeo and Juliet, FTPE.\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1025\fs20\kerning28 [10] This kindly priest who secretly weds the two star
-crossed lovers.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1025\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  Friar {\b\ul Lawrence\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1025\fs20\kerning28 [10] He gives a speech about Queen Mab, and after he
 is stabbed to death by Tybalt, he proclaims {\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\u8220\'93}a plague on both your houses.{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033\u8221
\'94}{\f4\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1025\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul Mercutio\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1025\fs20\kerning28 [10] The first meeting between Romeo and Juliet is brought
 about by the inability of this Capulet servant to read invitations.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1025\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul Peter\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 10) Identify the following about Stephen Crane\u8217
\'92s {\i The Red Badge of Courage}, for ten points each. \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] The May 1863 battle in which the combat described
 in \u8220\'93The Red Badge of Courage\u8221\'94 takes place. During this battle
 Robert E. Lee defeated Joseph Hooker as he attempted to envelop Lee\u8217\'92s 
forces south of the Rappahannock. \line ANSWER: {\b\ul Chancellorsville} \line [
10] The protagonist who emerges from the novel as a war hero after fleeing his first
 day of battle. \line ANSWER: {\b\ul Henry} Fleming \line The tall soldier who would
 run if everyone else did, and would stand and fight if everyone else stood and 
fought. He later dies of his wounds in Henry\u8217\'92s presence. \line ANSWER: 
{\b\ul Jim} Conklin \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 11) {\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0 Identify these psychological constructs
 that your tournament director has to use just to cope with the pain, FTPE.{\fs24
\par}}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] Name these things from Freudian thought, which resolve internal
 mental conflicts to reduce anxiety. Examples include idealization and dissociation
.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul defense mechanisms}\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] Your tournament director engages in this defense mechanism 
when he purposefully forgets the painful memories of his early childhood.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul repression}\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] Sometimes your tournament director watches shows from his childhood
 (like the Teletubbies!). This is an example of this defense mechanism, in which
 people attempt to go back to an earlier time with less responsibility.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul regression}{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0
\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 12) {\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0 Name these historical
 places of worship F10PE:\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] This temple dedicated to Athena survives to this
 day on the Acropolis in Athens, and is considered the most important surviving 
building from Classical Greece.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28  ANSWER: {\b\ul Parthenon{\b0\par}}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] This temple in Rome was built to honor all the 
gods, hence its name.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul Pantheon}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] This temple was built by Croesus of Lydia. It was
 destroyed by arson, and was described by Antipater as the greatest of the Seven
 Wonders.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28  ANSWER: Temple of {\b\ul Artemis at Ephesus }(Accept
 Diana for Artemis)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0
\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 13) {\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1028 FTPE, identify
 the following American mountain ranges from a description.\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0
\lang1028\fs20\kerning28 [10] Mount Marcy is the tallest peak in this range, and
 notable destinations include Lake Placid and Fort Ticonderoga.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0
\lang1028\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul Adirondack} Mountains\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0
\lang1028\fs20\kerning28 [10] This segment of the Appalachians stretches from Carlisle
, PA to Mt. Oglethorpe, and includes the Great Smoky Mountains as well as the tallest
 peak east of the Mississippi.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0
\lang1028\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul Blue Ridge}\~Mountains\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0
\lang1028\fs20\kerning28 [10] It extends for over 700 miles from northern California
 to southern British Columbia, and its tallest peak is Mt. Rainier.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\hyphpar0\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0
\lang1028\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:  {\b\ul Cascade}\~Range\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 14) Identify the following about the novel {\i Catch
-22} for ten points each. \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] The novel\u8217\'92s protagonist, his life\u8217
\'92s mission is to live forever or die in the attempt. He believes everyone is 
out to kill him one way or another.\line ANSWER:{\b\ul  Yossarin  }\line [10] He
 is the leader of the black market that was established in this story. He represents
 pure capitalism, at one point running missions for the Germans because they offered
 him enough money.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul Milo} Minderbender \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] He was given his name as joke, which the book notes
 was not a particularly funny one. He received his promotion while still in boot
 camp as a result of an IBM machine with a bad sense of humor. \line ANSWER: {\b
\ul Major Major Major Major\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 15) {\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0 Name the post-war American artist
 whose work has set sales records in the past year for 10 points each.{\fs24\par
}}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 (10) The founder of abstract expressionism, his drip painting technique
 can be seen in such works as {\i Autumn Rhythm }and {\i Blue Poles}.{\fs24\par}
}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 Answer: Jackson {\b\ul Pollock}{\fs24\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 (10) Born in Russia, his work can be described as \u8220\'93multiform
\u8221\'94 color field abstract expressionism.\~ He is known for creating paintings
 for spaces like the Menil Chapel and the Seagram Building{\fs24\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 Answer: Mark {\b\ul Rothko} (accept Marcus {\b\ul Rothkowitz)}{\fs24
\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 (10) Born in Pittsburgh, his paintings of Campbell Soup Cans and
 celebrities like Elizabeth Taylor, Mao Tse-tung, and Jackie Kennedy are icons of
 pop art.{\fs24\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af1\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Answer: Andy {\b\ul Warhol} (accept Andrew {\b\ul Warhola
}) {\fs24\~}{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 16) {\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0 Answer the following about translation
 FTPE\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] On an mRNA molecule, this is the term given to the sequence
 of three bases that codes for an amino acid.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\tqc\tx4320{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:{\b  {\ul codon}\tab\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] After the ribosome assembles on the mRNA, the codon AUG is 
the \u8220\'93start\u8221\'94 signal, and codes for this amino acid.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER:{\b  {\ul methionine}\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] If a number of insertions or deletions that is not divisible
 by three occurs, this type of mutation results. In nearly all cases, the protein
 loses functionality.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul frameshift mutation or framing error\par
}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 17) {\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0 Name these American 
political parties F10PE:\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] Originally an party founded by discontented members
 of the Whigs, Democrats, and Free-Soilers, this party eventually rose to prominence
 with its anti-slavery platform and first won a presidential election in 1860.\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul Republican{\b0  }}Party{\ul\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] Founded by Thomas Jefferson and James Madison, 
this political party was really the only party during the \u8220\'93Era of Good 
Feelings\u8221\'94 and lasted from 1792 to 1824, when it split into several factions
, one of which became the modern Democratic Party.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul Democratic-Republican }Party{\ul\par}
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] This party, colloquially none as the \u8220\'93
Know Nothing\u8221\'94 party, was anti-immigrant and anti-catholic.  It's real name
 reflects these nativist platforms.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul American{\b0  }}Party or Native {\ul American
 Party}{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 18) {\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0 Meant to be performed
 with programmatic sonnets, these works are the first four parts of their composer
\u8217\'92s Opus 8 and are entitled {\i\u8220\'93La Primavera\u8221\'94} [pre-muh
-VAIR-uh], {\i\u8220\'93L\u8217\'92estate\u8221\'94} [lis-TAH-tay], {\i\u8220\'93
L\u8217\'92autunno\u8221\'94} [law-TUN-no], and {\i\u8220\'93L\u8217\'92inverno\u8221
\'94} [lin-VAIR-no]. FTPE\u8230\'85\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] Name these quintessentially Baroque concerti grossi
 [con-CHAR-tee grow-SEE] of 1725.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\i Violin Concerti, for violin, strings & continuo
 (The {\b\ul Four Seasons}; \u8220\'93Il cimento\u8221\'94), Op.8/1-4, {\b\ul RV
 293}} (accept either underlined part; accept {\i Le {\b\ul quattro stagioni}})\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] {\i The Four Seasons} are the best-known works 
of this \u8220\'93Red Priest,\u8221\'94 who often taught music at a Venice girls
\u8217\'92 orphanage.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: Antonio Lucio {\b\ul Vivaldi}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10] {\i The Four Seasons} are part of a larger suite
 of twelve concerti known as {\i\u8220\'93The Contest Between\u8221\'94} this {\i
\u8220\'93and Invention\u8221\'94}. An earlier suite of twelve concertos, Opus 3
, is named for the {\i\u8220\'93Inspiration\u8221\'94} of this.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul Harmony} (accept word forms like {\b\ul
Harmonic}; accept {\b\ul Armonia} or {\b\ul Armonico}){\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0
\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28  \par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 19) {\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0 First stated by Guildberg and Waage
, this principle of chemistry allows one to determine the reaction quotient for 
non-equilibrium systems. F10PE:\par}}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] Name this law that, in its standard form, uses the concentrations
 of reactants over the concentrations of products raised to certain powers.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: the law of {\b\ul mass action}\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] The aforementioned powers in the law of mass action are these
 numbers, which appear before species when a reaction equation is written out and
 indicate the number of molecules the species participating.\line ANSWER: {\b\ul
stoichiometric} coefficients (or {\b\ul stoichiometric} numbers; accept word forms
 like {\b\ul stoichiometry})\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28 [10] The law of mass action is used on an equilibrium system to 
define this dimensionless, temperature-dependent value symbolized K that determines
, for example, how much of a product results from given amounts of reactants.\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: the {\b\ul reaction constant}{\dbch\af3\loch
\af0\hich\f0\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af3\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 20) {\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0 Identify some things
 about a pretty cool dude. F10PE:\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10]\tab This dictator and leader of a personality cult
 died from cardiac arrest in December 2006 after 21 years in power. Among his exploits
 were the renaming of the months and days, including renaming the month of January
 after himself, as well as banning video games and car stereos and shutting down
 rural libraries and clinics.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul Turkmenbashi}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10]\tab Niyazov\u8217\'92s portrait can be found all
 over this nation, as well as a giant gold statue of himself he erected in it\u8217
\'92s capital city of Ashgabat, which rotates continuously so as to always face 
the sun. He led this nation first as head of it\u8217\'92s Communist Party and then
 as President-for-Life.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: {\b\ul Turkmenistan}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 [10]\tab Knowledge of this \u8220\'93Book of the Soul
\u8221\'94 penned by Niyazov is mandatory for jobs in government service and even
 to pass the driving exam. It contains moral precepts, autobiograpicahl details 
and revisionist history. Niyazov renamed the month of September after this literary
 oeuvre, although some doubt exists as to whether he wrote it all himself.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 ANSWER: The {\b\ul Ruhnama{\ulnone  (do not accept Book
 of the Soul)\par}}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich
\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\sa240{\dbch\af2\loch\af0\hich\f0\lang1033
\fs20\kerning28\par}

}