{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f35\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f36\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000400000000000000}WP TypographicSymbols;}{\f37\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR;}
{\f204\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f205\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f207\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f208\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f209\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f210\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f211\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f212\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f554\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f555\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}
{\f557\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f558\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f559\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}{\f560\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}{\f561\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}
{\f562\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Tahoma (Vietnamese);}{\f563\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Tahoma (Thai);}{\f574\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR CE;}{\f575\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR Cyr;}
{\f577\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR Greek;}{\f578\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR Tur;}{\f579\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR (Hebrew);}{\f580\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR (Arabic);}
{\f581\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR Baltic;}{\f582\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f35\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \ssemihidden \styrsid15730587 Balloon Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid70884\rsid471293\rsid3872503\rsid3874116\rsid4869858\rsid6294193\rsid7541747\rsid9060010\rsid9897910\rsid10760086
\rsid12148795\rsid12805287\rsid12978897\rsid15730587}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.3416;}{\info{\title Valencia Fall Invitational 2003}{\author cborglum}{\operator cborglum}{\creatim\yr2003\mo10\dy9\hr11\min39}{\revtim\yr2003\mo11\dy6\hr14\min8}
{\printim\yr2003\mo11\dy6\hr14\min8}{\version9}{\edmins155}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords3074}{\nofchars17524}{\*\company Valencia Community College}{\nofcharsws20557}{\vern16453}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot4869858 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4869858 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid4869858 Valencia Fall Invitational 2003}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid4869858 Round 4\emdash Questions}{\fs20\insrsid10760086  mostly}{\fs20\insrsid4869858  by Mitch Alday
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par Tossups
\par 1.  In the 1820s he underwent mercury treatment for syphilis, which left him looking romantically haggard.  By the time of his international tour in the early 1830s, his expressiveness had equaled his technique, and some believed he had made a pact with t
he devil for his amazing talent.  FTP, who was this Italian violinist and composer whose numerous compositions include 24 caprices for solo violin and 6 violin concertos?
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12978897 \tab }{\fs20\insrsid70884 Answer:  Niccolo }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Paganini}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par 
\par 2.  The "Great White Barrier Wall" at its front was first 
sighted in 1841 by its namesake, a British explorer, and rises in places to 200 feet. Its area is estimated to be about the size of France, which makes it by far the world's largest body of floating ice.  The site of several permanent research stations, F
TP, what is this "gateway" utilized by Amundsen, Scott, and Byrd on their voyages to the South Pole?
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12978897 \tab }{\fs20\insrsid70884 Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Ross}{\fs20\insrsid70884  Ice Shelf
\par 
\par 3.}{\fs20\insrsid4869858   }{\fs20\insrsid15730587 Some of his }{\fs20\insrsid4869858 nove}{\fs20\insrsid70884 ls}{\fs20\insrsid15730587  include }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 Sukkariyah}{\i\fs20\insrsid15730587 , }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 Midaq}{
\fs20\insrsid70884  }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 Alley, Miramar}{\fs20\insrsid70884 , and }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 Children}{\fs20\insrsid70884  }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 of}{\fs20\insrsid70884  }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 Gebelawi}{\fs20\insrsid15730587 , all of which}{
\fs20\insrsid70884  offer critical views of Egyptian}{\fs20\insrsid15730587  politics and mores}{\fs20\insrsid70884 .  FTP, who was this Egyptian author of }{\i\fs20\insrsid15730587\charrsid15730587  }{\i\fs20\insrsid15730587 Palace}{
\fs20\insrsid15730587  }{\i\fs20\insrsid15730587 Walk}{\fs20\insrsid15730587  and }{\i\fs20\insrsid15730587 Palace}{\fs20\insrsid15730587  }{\i\fs20\insrsid15730587 of}{\fs20\insrsid15730587  }{\i\fs20\insrsid15730587 Desire}{\fs20\insrsid15730587 
, which are parts of his}{\fs20\insrsid70884  \'93}{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 Cairo}{\fs20\insrsid70884  }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 Trilogy}{\fs20\insrsid4869858 ,\'94}{\fs20\insrsid15730587  and who was}{\fs20\insrsid4869858  }{\fs20\insrsid70884 
the first Arabic writer to be awarded the Nobel Prize?
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12978897 \tab }{\fs20\insrsid70884 Answer:  Naguib }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Mahfouz}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par 
\par 4.  It
 is used to calculate the probability of human matings that may result in defective offspring, and to determine whether the number of harmful mutations in a population is increasing.  In a large, random-mating population, the proportion of dominant and re
c
essive genes tends to remain constant from generation to generation unless outside forces such as selection, mutation, gene flow, and natural selection act to change it.  FTP, what is this principle named for two scientists that describes genetic balance 
within a population?
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12978897 \tab }{\fs20\insrsid70884 Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Hardy-Weinberg}{\fs20\insrsid70884  Principle
\par 
\par 5.  Other than the white background, its predominant color is yellow, and - not surprisingly - its overall layout appears to be that of an aerial photograph of a few city blocks.  }{\fs20\insrsid4869858 Omitting black, the painting broke with its artist
\rquote s usual use of uniform bars of color by using multiple red, yellow and blue segments.  Painted to celebrate the artist\rquote s love of New York and a certain type of music,}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
 FTP, what is this 1943 painting with a rhyming title by Piet Mondrian?
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12978897 \tab }{\fs20\insrsid70884 Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Broadway}{\fs20\insrsid70884  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Boogie}{\fs20\insrsid70884  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Woogie}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par 
\par 6.  The first battle of this name was also called the Battle of Freeman's Farm and featured British General John Burgoyne and Continental Army General Horatio Gates.  The second, which was known as the Battle 
of Bemis Heights, occurred 18 days later when a counterattack led by Benedict Arnold forced the depleted British army to surrender to Gates.  FTP, what are these Revolutionary War battles named after a New York town}{\fs20\insrsid4869858 
 where American victories}{\fs20\insrsid70884  induced the French to offer military aid to the colonies?
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12978897 \tab }{\fs20\insrsid70884 Answer:  Battles of }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Saratoga}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par 
\par 7.  She agrees to give up her child if his father will return for him. Then, sending her servant Suzuki away, she takes out the dagger with which her father committed suicide and bow
s before a statue of Buddha, choosing to die with honor rather than live in disgrace. However, as she raises the blade, Suzuki suddenly pushes the child into the room. Sobbing farewell, she sends her son into the garden to play, then stabs herself. As she
 dies, Lieutenant Pinkerton is heard calling her name. FTP, who is this tragic main character of }{\fs20\insrsid3872503 a Puccini opera}{\fs20\insrsid70884 ?
\par }{\fs20\insrsid9060010 \tab }{\fs20\insrsid70884 Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Cio}{\fs20\insrsid70884 -}{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Cio}{\fs20\insrsid70884  San (accept }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884\charrsid3872503 Madame Butterfly}{\fs20\insrsid3872503 )}{
\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 8.  Even among the stars he wasn't done causing mischief, as he caused the horses pulling Phaethon's chariot to bolt.  The Gods had flung him into the heavens as punishment for stinging and killing Orion.  FTP, what is this character from classical myth w
hose constellation lies between Libra and Sagittarius and is the eighth sign of the Zodiac?
\par }{\fs20\insrsid9060010 \tab }{\fs20\insrsid70884 Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Scorpio}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12978897 {\fs20\cf1\insrsid70884 9.  }{\fs20\insrsid12978897 
Carl Jung used it more broadly as a term to encompass all life processes in all species.  The concept was originated by Sigmund Freud, who bel
ieved that psychiatric illnesses were the result of misdirecting or suppressing it.  Freud also believed that it was linked with all constructive human activity and not just sexual desire.  FTP, what is this physiological and emotional energy associated m
ost commonly with the 'sex drive'?
\par }{\fs20\insrsid9060010 \tab }{\fs20\insrsid12978897 Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid12978897 Libido}{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 10.  He settled in Transoxania after taking part in campaigns there with Genghis Khan's son Chagatai.  In the 1380s he began his conquest of Persia, taking lands from Khorasan to Mesopotamia and suppressi
ng revolts by massacring entire cities. After leaving a trail of carnage in India, he marched on Damascus and Baghdad, destroying all the monuments of the latter and deporting the artisans of the former to his capital at Samarkand.  FTP, who was this Turk
ic conqueror of Islamic faith whose name reflects the lasting battle wounds he received?
\par }{\fs20\insrsid9060010 \tab }{\fs20\insrsid70884 Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Tamerlane}{\fs20\insrsid12978897  (acc. Timur the Lame)}{\fs20\insrsid70884\charrsid12978897 
\par }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\tx0\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15730587 {\fs20\insrsid70884 11.  }{\fs20\insrsid15730587\charrsid12805287 
It lies directly beneath the optic chiasm, and has two lobes called the neuro- and adenohypophysis (ah-den-oh-high-pah-p
hi-sis). The anterior section secretes various protein hormones including thyroid-stimulating hormone, growth hormone, and adenocorticotropic hormone. The posterior section secretes oxytocin and antidiuretic hormone. FTP, name this }{
\fs20\insrsid15730587\charrsid12805287 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 65 \\f "WP TypographicSymbols" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f36\fs20}}}{\fs20\insrsid15730587\charrsid12805287 master gland}{\fs20\insrsid15730587\charrsid12805287 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 64 \\f 
"WP TypographicSymbols" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f36\fs20}}}{\fs20\insrsid15730587\charrsid12805287  of the human body.
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs20\ul\insrsid15730587\charrsid12805287 pituitary}{\b\fs20\insrsid15730587\charrsid12805287  }{\fs20\insrsid15730587\charrsid12805287 gland\~
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 12.  Following the Zen philosophy he studied, he attempted to compress the meaning of the world into the simple, concise pattern o
f his poetry, disclosing hidden hopes in small things and showing the interdependence of all objects. His }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 The Narrow Road to the Deep North}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
, a poetic prose travelogue, is one of the loveliest works of Japanese literature. FTP, identify this Japanese haiku poet, perhaps the greatest practitioner of the form.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid9060010 \tab }{\fs20\insrsid70884 Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Basho}{\fs20\insrsid70884  Matsuo
\par 
\par 13.  In Hinduism, moksha is the release from this.  In Buddhism, the way out of it is by achievement of nirvana.  The particulars of an individual's wanderings in this are determi
ned by karma.  With a range stretching from the lowliest of insects to Brahma, the highest of the gods, this is, FTP, what endless round of birth, death, and rebirth to which all conditioned beings are subject?
\par }{\fs20\insrsid9060010 \tab }{\fs20\insrsid70884 Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 samsara
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 14.  }{\fs20\insrsid12978897 Its founder moved the capital of the faithful }{\fs20\insrsid70884 
to Damascus and used the Syrian army to extend the Arab empire. Its greatest period was under Abd al-Malik, when the empire extended from Spain to Central Asia and India}{\fs20\insrsid12978897 .  A century after being established by Muawiyyah, }{
\fs20\insrsid70884  }{\fs20\insrsid12978897 its}{\fs20\insrsid70884  decline began with a defeat by the Byzantines in 717 and continued when intertribal feuding and the failure of financial }{\fs20\insrsid12978897 reforms eventually led to its }{
\fs20\insrsid70884 unseating by the Abbasid dynasty. FTP, what was this first great Muslim dynasty?
\par }{\fs20\insrsid9060010 \tab }{\fs20\insrsid70884 Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Umayyad}{\fs20\insrsid70884  Dynasty
\par 
\par 15.  The first novelistic development of the theme, Goethe's }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship}{\fs20\insrsid70884 , remains a }{\fs20\insrsid12978897 classic example of this form that}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
 grew out of folklore tales in which a dunce goes out into the world seeking adventure.  They }{\fs20\insrsid12978897 tend to }{\fs20\insrsid70884 
end on a positive note, with the hero's foolish mistakes and painful disappointments behind him and a life of usefulness ahead.  FTP, name these novels in German literature that deal with the formative years of the main character, }{\fs20\insrsid12978897 
roughly translating as \'93novel of growing up.\'94}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid9060010 \tab }{\fs20\insrsid70884 Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Bildungsroman}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12978897 {\fs20\insrsid12978897 16.  It may be given as follows: To each number in the sequence 0, 3, 6, 12, 24, and so on, add 4 and divide the result by 
10. The answers closely approximate the actual distances from the sun, in astronomical units, of the planets - except Neptune - and suggested that a planet should be found between Mars and Jupiter where the asteroid belt was later discovered.  First annou
nced in 1766 by the German Johann Daniel Titius and later popularized by one of his countrymen, this is, FTP, what law giving the approximate distances of planets from the sun?
\par }{\fs20\insrsid9060010 \tab }{\fs20\insrsid12978897 Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid12978897 Bode's}{\fs20\insrsid12978897  Law (accept Titius-Bode Law as it is sometimes called that)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid12978897 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 1}{\fs20\insrsid12978897 7}{\fs20\insrsid70884 .  }{\fs20\insrsid3872503 
At the age of six this man was made part of the Equestrian Order at the order of Hadrian, and two years later he was made a member of the Salian Priesthood.  Hadrian\rquote 
s will stipulated that Faustina, daughter of his heir Antoninus Pius, would become this man\rquote 
s bride.  When he ascended to the throne himself, he named his adopted brother Lucius Verus as co-emperor.  Followed by his son Commodus as emperor, FTP who was this Roman emperor, author of Meditations?}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid3872503 \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid3872503\charrsid3872503 Marcus Aurelius}{\fs20\ul\insrsid3872503 
\par }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 1}{\fs20\insrsid12978897 8}{\fs20\insrsid70884 .  In it, one begi
ns with the concept of God as that than which nothing greater can be conceived.  To think of such a being as existing only in thought and not also in reality involves a contradiction, since a being that lacks real existence is not a being than which none 
g
reater can be conceived.  A yet greater being would be one with the further attribute of existence.  Thus the unsurpassably perfect being must exist; otherwise it would not be unsurpassably perfect.  FTP, this is what argument for the existence of God fir
st clearly formulated in the }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 Proslogion }{\fs20\insrsid70884 by St. Anselm?
\par }{\fs20\insrsid9060010 \tab }{\fs20\insrsid70884 Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Ontological}{\fs20\insrsid70884  Argument
\par }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6294193 {\fs20\insrsid70884 19}{\fs20\insrsid6294193 . }{\fs20\insrsid6294193\charrsid6294193 His first discoveries con
cerned the asymmetry that distinguishes the organic from the mineral, opening up the field of stereochemistry. In 1885, he began studying infections crippling the s
ilkworm industry, which eventually led him to discover the technique of sterilization, revolutionizing surgery. FTP, who is this French scientist, whose namesake process is used to make things like beer and milk safe to drink?
\par \tab A. Louis }{\fs20\ul\insrsid6294193\charrsid6294193 Pasteur}{\fs20\insrsid6294193\charrsid6294193 \~
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12978897 {\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12978897 {\fs20\insrsid70884 20.  }{\fs20\insrsid12978897 This work is harshly critical of the shortcomings of unrestrained free enterprise and monopoly.  In it t
he author uses the analogy of a pin factory to argue in favor of an economic system based on individual self-interest that would be led, as if by an "invisible hand," to achieve the greatest good for all, and posits the division of labor as the chief fact
o
r in economic growth. A reaction to the system of mercantilism then current, it stands as the beginning and perhaps most influential work of classical economics. FTP, what is this work often regarded as the "Bible of Capitalism" written in 1776 by Adam Sm
ith?
\par }{\fs20\insrsid9060010 \tab }{\fs20\insrsid12978897 Answer:  }{\i\fs20\insrsid12978897 An Inquiry Into the Nature and Causes of the }{\i\fs20\ul\insrsid12978897 Wealth of Nations
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9060010 {\fs20\insrsid9060010 
21.  It's authorship is ascribed to the 'Bull of a Sage' who composed the poem after watching a hunter shoot down a mating bird with an arrow.  Its title character joins forces w
ith Vibhishana and the monkey-god Hanuman to rescue his bride Sita who has been kidnapped by Ravana, the demon-king of Sri Lanka.  FTP, what is this epic of Sanskrit literature attributed to Valmiki?
\par \tab Answer:  }{\i\fs20\ul\insrsid9060010 Ramayana}{\fs20\insrsid9060010 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3872503 {\fs20\insrsid3872503 
22.  It is still used today, though when the road on which it lies was built in 220 BC, it was most likely constructed of wood.  It crossed the Tiber River a few miles north of Rome, and according to a legend, in 312 AD a cross and the words }{
\i\fs20\insrsid3872503 in hoc signo vinces}{\fs20\insrsid3872503  meaning 'by this sign thou shalt conquer' appeared to Constantine there.  FTP, name this bridge where Constantine defeated Maxentius to become emperor of the West.
\par \tab Answer:  The }{\fs20\ul\insrsid3872503 Milvian}{\fs20\insrsid3872503  Bridge}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid9060010 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9060010 {\fs20\insrsid6294193 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid9060010 Valencia Fall Invitational\emdash Round 4 Boni
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid70884 1.  Name these philosophical works, FTPE.
\par A.  In this 1781 work, Immanuel Kant claimed that sense experience is ordered by the mind according to the "categories of the understanding."
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Critique of Pure Reason}{\fs20\insrsid70884  (do not accept Critique of Practical Reason)
\par B.  In this 1690 work, John Locke argued that the human mind at birth is a }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 tabula rasa }{\fs20\insrsid70884 on which experience leaves its mark.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Essay Concerning Human Understanding}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par C.  In this 1922 work, Ludwig Wittgenstein claimed that most philosophical problems are the result of the misuse of language.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus}{\fs20\insrsid70884  (accept "Treatise of/on Logical Philosophy")
\par }{\fs20\insrsid471293 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid6294193 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 2.  Identify the poets of the following 'hard' poems FTPE.  If you need an easier poem, you'll only get five.
\par For 10:  }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 Upon Julia's Clothes; Upon Prue, His Maid; Upon a Child That Died; }{\fs20\insrsid70884 and }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 Upon Ben Jonson
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 For 5:  }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 To the Virgins to Make Much of Time}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par \tab Answer:  Robert }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Herrick}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par For 10:  }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 Two Look at Two; Birches; }{\fs20\insrsid70884 and }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 The Runaway}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par For 5:  }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par \tab Answer:  Robert }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Frost}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par For 10}{\i\fs20\insrsid70884\charrsid70884 :  Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came}{\i\fs20\insrsid6294193 ; Fra L}{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 ippo Lippi}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par For 5:  }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 My Last Duchess}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par \tab Answer:  Robert }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Browning}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid471293 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid6294193 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 3.  Identify these originators of various atomic theories, 5-10-15.
\par A.  For 5:  Born in Thrace, he derived his theory fro
m Leucippus, and was in turn copied by Epicurus.  He posited an infinite multitude of indestructible atoms, from whose random combinations arise an infinite number of Cosmoses in which there is law but not design.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Democritus}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par B.  For 10:  This Englishman's researches on mixed gases, the force of steam, and the expansion of gases by heat led him to a theory of atoms, and also his law of partial pressures.
\par \tab Answer:  John }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Dalton}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par C.  For 15:  Along with Frederick Soddy, he proposed that radioactivity results from the disintegration of atoms, and for this he won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1908.
\par \tab Answer:  Ernest }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Rutherford}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid471293 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid6294193 
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 4.  Name these painting movements, FTPE.
\par A.  Led by Ernst Ludwig Kirchner and Eric Heckel, this 1905 Dresden movement rebelled against Impressionism while linking elements of the South Seas and primitive German religious art.}{\fs20\insrsid3872503   Its name is German for \'93The Bridge.\'94}{
\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par \tab Answer:  Die }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Brucke}{\fs20\insrsid3872503  }{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par B.  Formed in Munich around Wassily Kandinsky and Franz Marc, this group incorperated Die Brucke.  It dissolved with the onset of World War I.
\par \tab Answer:  Die }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Blau Reiter }{\fs20\insrsid70884 or the Blue Rider
\par C.  Centered in the French forest of Fontainebleau, this school included Theodore Rousseau and Charles Daubigny, as well as other landscape painters.
\par \tab Answer:  The }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Barbizon }{\fs20\insrsid70884 School
\par 
\par 5. }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid70884  Identify the following players in }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid6294193 an 1868 brouhaha }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid70884 FTPE.
\par }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid6294193 A. This president was impeached by Radical Republicans (what a shock!) who wanted him gone for violating the Tenure of Office Act.
\par \tab Answer:  Andrew }{\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid6294193\charrsid6294193 Johnson}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid6294193 
\par B. This R}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid70884 adical Republican was the Secretary of War Johnson wanted to get rid of.
\par \tab Answer: Edwin }{\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid70884 Stanton}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid70884 
\par }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid6294193 C}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid70884 
. Johnson tried to replace Stanton in 1867 by appointing this man, who refused the appointment after the Supreme Court refused to rule on the case and the Senate forbade Stanton's dismissal.  A gratuitous hint:  he later became president himself.
\par \tab Answer: Ulysses }{\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid70884 Grant}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid70884 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid471293 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 6.  Identify the following concerning the Theatre of the Absurd FTSNOP.
\par For 10:  This playwright wrote about an average citizen in a nameless French city who, because he is not interested in the fact that certain creatures are on the loose, quarrels with h
is friend Jean, his secretary Daisy, and many locals outside a grocer's shop.
\par \tab Answer:  Eugene }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Ionesco
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 For 5:  Name that Ionesco play.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\i\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Rhinoceros}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par For 15:  Now name that "average citizen" and the main character of the play }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 Rhinoceros}{\fs20\insrsid70884  who is the only human left on the planet after Daisy changes.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Berenger}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid471293 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid471293 {\fs20\insrsid70884 7.  }{\fs20\insrsid471293 Name these glands FTPE.
\par A.  Located in the brain, it regulates body temperature, blood pressure, heartbeat, metabolism of fats and carbohydrates, and blood-sugar level.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid471293 hypothalamus}{\fs20\insrsid471293 
\par B.  Located in the upper chest under the breastbone, it is essential to the development of the body's immune system from the fetal stage.  Lymphocytes are processed here.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid471293 thymus}{\fs20\insrsid471293 
\par C.  Among the hormones produced by its anterior lobe include human growth hormone, ACTH, and thyrotropic hormone.  Its posterior lobe produces oxytocin.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid471293 \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid471293\charrsid6294193 pituitary}{\fs20\insrsid471293   }{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid471293 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 8.  }{\fs20\insrsid6294193 30-20-10 Name the composer from works.}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid6294193 A. (30 pts.) }{\i\fs20\insrsid7541747\charrsid7541747 The Marriage of Camacho}{\fs20\insrsid7541747 ; }{\i\fs20\insrsid7541747\charrsid7541747 Songs without Words}{\fs20\insrsid6294193 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid7541747 B. (20 pts.) The oratorio }{\i\fs20\insrsid7541747\charrsid7541747 Elijah}{\fs20\insrsid7541747 ; }{\i\fs20\insrsid7541747\charrsid7541747 The Hebrides Overture}{\i\fs20\insrsid7541747 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid7541747 C. (10 pts.) Incidental music to }{\i\fs20\insrsid7541747\charrsid7541747 A Midsummer Night\rquote s Dream}{\fs20\insrsid7541747 ; The }{\i\fs20\insrsid7541747\charrsid7541747 Italian Symphony}{\fs20\insrsid7541747 
\par \tab Answer:  Felix }{\fs20\ul\insrsid7541747\charrsid7541747 Mendelssohn}{\fs20\insrsid7541747\charrsid7541747 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid471293 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 9.  Identify these English kings from descriptions of their arms FTPE.\line A. His arms reflect his mother's lineage: they are the reverse of the shield of Aquitaine, with three lions }{\i\fs20\insrsid70884 passant guardant }{
\fs20\insrsid70884 on a blood-red field.\line \tab Answer: }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Richard I\line }{\fs20\insrsid70884 B. Unlike his Norman predecessors and successors, this sole ruler of his house's arms of Touraine showed a gold sagittary on red.\line 
\tab Answer: }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Stephen }{\fs20\insrsid70884 of Blois\line C. He was the first English king to adopt a crest, and in 1337, in order to strengthen his claim to France, he was the first to quarter French arms with his own.\line \tab 
Answer: }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Edward III}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10760086 {\fs20\insrsid70884 10.  }{\f37\fs20\insrsid10760086\charrsid10760086 Name the John Steinbeck novels in which the following characters appear FTPE.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-4320\li4320\ri0\widctlpar\tx-1440\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin4320\itap0\pararsid10760086 {\f37\fs20\insrsid10760086 A.  Cal and Aron Trask\tab }{\f37\fs20\insrsid10760086\charrsid10760086 A.  }{
\i\f37\fs20\ul\insrsid10760086\charrsid10760086 East of Eden}{\f37\fs20\insrsid10760086\charrsid10760086 
\par B. }{\f37\fs20\insrsid10760086  George Milton and Lenny Small\tab }{\f37\fs20\insrsid10760086\charrsid10760086 A.  }{\i\f37\fs20\ul\insrsid10760086\charrsid10760086 Of Mice and Men}{\f37\fs20\insrsid10760086\charrsid10760086 
\par }{\f37\fs20\insrsid10760086 C.  Danny, Pilon, Mr. Torelli}{\f37\fs20\insrsid10760086\charrsid10760086 \tab A.  }{\i\f37\fs20\ul\insrsid10760086\charrsid10760086 Tortilla Flat}{\f37\fs20\insrsid10760086\charrsid10760086 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par 11. Given the animal, identify the phylum to which it belongs F5PE.
\par A.  Stinkbug
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Arthropoda}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par B.  Bandicoot
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Chordata}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par C.  Earthworm
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Annelida}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par D.  Sponge
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Porifera}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par E.  Sea Urchin
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Echinodermata}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par F.  Lobster
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Arthropoda}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid471293 {\fs20\insrsid471293 
\par 12. Identify the following about social contracts FTPE.
\par A.  In this Platonic dialogue, Socrates gives the first theory of social contract saying it would be wrong for him to escape execution because by living in Athens he implies acceptance of the rule of \'93persuade or obey.\'94
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\fs20\ul\insrsid471293 Crito
\par }{\fs20\insrsid471293 B.  In the }{\i\fs20\insrsid471293 Leviathan}{\fs20\insrsid471293 , Hobbes says that men form social contracts with the leviathan in order to avoid this state in which all people are fighting all people.
\par \tab Answer: State of }{\fs20\ul\insrsid471293 War}{\fs20\insrsid3872503\charrsid3872503   }{\fs20\insrsid3872503 (accept \'93state of nature\'94)}{\fs20\insrsid471293\charrsid3872503 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid471293 C.  This}{\fs20\insrsid3872503  French}{\fs20\insrsid471293  philosopher argues that a social contract is brought into being to regulate social interaction.  It should be ruled by the \'93general will.\'94\tab }{\fs20\insrsid3872503 

\par \tab }{\fs20\insrsid471293 Answer: Jean Jacques }{\fs20\ul\insrsid471293 Rousseau
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid471293 
\par 13}{\fs20\insrsid70884 .  Given a character from a work by Charles Dickens, name the work FTPE.
\par A:  The Artful Dodger
\par \tab Answer:  }{\i\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Oliver Twist}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par B:  }{\fs20\insrsid7541747 Uriah Heep}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid7541747 \tab Answer:  }{\i\fs20\ul\insrsid7541747\charrsid7541747 David Copperfield}{\fs20\insrsid7541747 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 C:  }{\fs20\insrsid471293 Wackford Squeers}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid471293 \tab Answer:  }{\i\fs20\ul\insrsid471293\charrsid471293 Nicholas Nickleby}{\fs20\insrsid471293 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid471293 {\fs20\insrsid471293 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10760086 {\fs20\insrsid70884 1}{\fs20\insrsid3874116 4}{\fs20\insrsid70884 .}{\fs20\insrsid10760086  }{\fs20\insrsid70884  }{\fs20\insrsid10760086 
Name these theories of acids and bases, 10 each:
\par A.  This Swedish chemist's theory defines an acid as a compound that can dissociate in water to yield hydrogen ions, and a base as a compound that can dissociate in water to yield hydroxyl ions.
\par \tab Answer:  Svante }{\fs20\ul\insrsid10760086 Arrhenius}{\fs20\insrsid10760086 
\par B.  This other theory defines an acid as a proton donor and a base as a proton acceptor.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid10760086 Bronsted-Lowry}{\fs20\insrsid10760086 
\par C.  This third theory defines an acid as a compound that can accept a pair of electrons, and a base as a compound that can donate a pair of electrons.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid10760086 \tab Answer: }{\fs20\ul\insrsid10760086 Lewis}{\fs20\ul\insrsid471293 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid10760086 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 1}{\fs20\insrsid3874116 5}{\fs20\insrsid70884 .  Identify the following concerning a couple of philosophers who have something in common FTPE.
\par A:  The claim that this man was the founder of Western philosophy rests primarily on Aristotle, who wrote that he was the first to suggest a single material substratum for the universe, namely water.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Thales}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par B:  This fellow defined the essence of matter as "air" and explained the densities of various types of matter in terms of varying degrees of condensation of moisture.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Anaximenes}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par C:  Both Thales and Anaximenes hailed from this city near the mouth of the Menderes River which was also home to Anaximander.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Miletus
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 1}{\fs20\insrsid3874116 6}{\fs20\insrsid70884 .  Name these people and events that affected Poland in t}{\fs20\insrsid10760086 he 18th and 19th centuries for fifteen points each.}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par A.}{\fs20\insrsid9897910  The second and third of these splittings of Polish territory by neighbors took place in 1772 and 1795.}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid9897910 \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid9897910\charrsid9897910 partitions}{\fs20\insrsid9897910 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 B. The Confederation of Bar was formed in 1768 by Polish nobles who opposed interference by this Tzarina.
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Catherine }{\fs20\insrsid70884 the Great
\par }{\fs20\insrsid471293 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid10760086 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid3874116 17}{\fs20\insrsid70884 .  }{\fs20\insrsid7541747 Identify these people named Horace, none of whom is an NBA power forward who wears goggles, FTPE.}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid7541747 A. This Horace lived in the estate Strawberry Hill and wrote the first Gothic novel, The Castle of Otranto.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid7541747\charrsid7541747 Walpole}{\fs20\insrsid7541747 
\par B.  This Horace was the founder and publisher of the New York Tribune and famously wrote, \'93Go West, young man!\'94
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid7541747\charrsid7541747 Greeley}{\fs20\insrsid7541747 
\par C.  This Horace was the father of the American common school movement.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid7541747\charrsid7541747 Mann}{\fs20\ul\insrsid7541747 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10760086 {\fs20\insrsid70884 1}{\fs20\insrsid3874116 8}{\fs20\insrsid70884 .  }{\fs20\insrsid10760086\charrsid471293 Name}{\fs20\insrsid10760086 
 these physical constants, given their values, FTSNOP.
\par A. (20 pts.) 1/137.036
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid10760086\charrsid471293 Fine Structure}{\fs20\insrsid10760086  Constant
\par B. (10 pts.) 1.602 times 10 to the negative 19 coulombs
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid10760086\charrsid12148795 electron charge}{\fs20\insrsid10760086 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid471293 {\fs20\insrsid3874116 19}{\fs20\insrsid471293 . Name these Indian dynasties, FTPE.
\par A. Lasting from 325 BC to 183 BC, this empire reached its height under Asoka.
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs20\ul\insrsid471293 Mauryan}{\fs20\insrsid471293 
\par B. This dynasty lasted from about 320 to 550 AD.  Cultural highlights included the erection of the iron pillar near New Delhi.
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs20\ul\insrsid471293 Gupta}{\fs20\insrsid471293 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid7541747 C. T}{\fs20\insrsid471293 his dynasty}{\fs20\insrsid7541747 , which included Jahangir and Aurangzeb,}{\fs20\insrsid471293  lasted from 1526 until 1857, by which time its leaders were British puppets.
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs20\ul\insrsid471293 Mughal}{\fs20\insrsid471293  (or Mogul)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid471293 
\par 2}{\fs20\insrsid3874116 0}{\fs20\insrsid70884 .  Identify the following from Greek mythology 30-20-10
\par For 30:  Its skin was used to make the Aegis, the shield of Athena.
\par For 20:  Its horn became the cornucopia.
\par For 10:  This was the goat who suckled Zeus when he was a child.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs20\ul\insrsid70884 Amalthea}{\fs20\insrsid70884 
\par }}