{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol{\*\falt Times};}{\f35\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f36\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000400000000000000}WP TypographicSymbols;}
{\f203\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f204\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f206\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f207\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f208\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f209\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f210\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f211\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f553\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f554\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}
{\f556\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f557\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f558\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}{\f559\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}{\f560\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}
{\f561\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Tahoma (Vietnamese);}{\f562\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Tahoma (Thai);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \fi-360\li360\ri0\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2\pnrnot0
\pndec }\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls2\adjustright\rin0\lin360\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \sautoupd \styrsid7413772 List Bullet;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f35\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 \ssemihidden \styrsid7413772 Balloon Text;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-187903846\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0
\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360\lin360 }{\listname ;}\listid-119}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid-119
\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls3}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid3297458\rsid3427222\rsid7413772\rsid10559105\rsid11749904\rsid12322996\rsid15948938\rsid16654838}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.3416;}{\info{\author cborglum}
{\operator cborglum}{\creatim\yr2003\mo10\dy16\hr9\min38}{\revtim\yr2003\mo11\dy6\hr13\min45}{\printim\yr2003\mo11\dy6\hr13\min45}{\version6}{\edmins19}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords2890}{\nofchars16473}{\*\company Valencia Community College}{\nofcharsws19325}
{\vern16453}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz936\notabind\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\subfontbysize\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot7413772 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24\lang4105\langfe1033\langnp4105\insrsid7413772 
 SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 Valencia Delta Burke Invitational\endash Round 1
\par Questions by CB with science help from folks at DePauw
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 1.  Her first published work was }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 The Mayflower}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 , a collection of sketches of descendants of that ship\rquote s passengers.  Later in life she wrote lesser-known novels like }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 
Poganuc People}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 , }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 Old-Town Folks}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  and }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 The Minister\rquote s Wooing}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 .  Her best-known work was followed by a novel on a similar theme: }{
\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 Dred: a tale of the Great Dismal Swamp}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 .  That novel follows the anti-slavery theme she used so successfully in an 1848 work.  FTP name this author of }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 Uncle Tom\rquote s Cabin}{
\fs24\insrsid7413772 .
\par \tab A.  Harriet Beecher }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Stowe}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\hyphpar0\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7413772 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 2.  Polar covalent bonds have a higher value than do ionic bonds in this category.  The Mulliken Scale measure
s this quantity, but the Pauling scale is the one used most often to refer to this value for each element.  Naturally, ions that cannot combine to form stable nuclei have a value of zero, and fluorine has the highest value, at 4.0.  FTP, what is this valu
e, also referred to as electron affinity, that refers to an element}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 61 \\f "WP TypographicSymbols" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f36\fs24}}}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 s ability to form chemical bonds?
\par \tab A: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772\charrsid3427222 Electronegativity}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  (accept }{\fs24\insrsid7413772 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 65 \\f "WP TypographicSymbols" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f36\fs24}}}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 electron affinity}{
\fs24\insrsid7413772 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 64 \\f "WP TypographicSymbols" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f36\fs24}}}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  before mentioned)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 3.  In Arab lore, she is called Bilqis; the historian Josephus called her Nikaulis; and in the Ethiopian epic Kabra Negast, she is called Makeda.  The land she ruled is considered to have encompassed th
e southwestern area of the Arabian peninsula on the eastern tip of the Red Sea, and perhaps also the coastal area on the western shores of the Red Sea. In First Kings 10 she comes to another ruler \'93to test him with hard questions.\'94
  FTP name this monarch who is seduced and converted to Christianity by Solomon.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Queen of Sheba}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par 4.  In its native language, the opposite of this term is }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 noa}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 , which means common or generally accessible.  James Cook heard the term used in 1771, and in the late 19}{\fs24\super\insrsid7413772 th}{
\fs24\insrsid7413772  century psychologists and anthropologists began using it regularly.  Freud said it simultaneously means both \'93sacred [or] consecrated, [but also] unanny [or] dangerous.\'94  Examples include various cultures\rquote 
 prohibitions on eating human flesh or engaging in certain sexual acts.  FTP name this Tongan term used to refer to forbidden behaviors like incest.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 taboo}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par 5.  He voyaged to the \'93New World\'94 three times as an officer before leading his own voyage in 1503.  On that trip he and his crew became the first Westerners 
to land at the Falkland Islands, and they charted much of the South American landmass.  It was the mapmaker Martin Waldseemuller who immortalized this man\rquote s fame when he believed the explorer\rquote 
s claim to be the first man to explore the New World.  FTP name this Italian whose first name was applied by Waldseemuller to the major New World landmass.
\par \tab A.  Amerigo }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Vespucci}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7413772 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid7413772 
6.  They mark the vertical limit of convection and are normally diurnal in their cycles.  They can form over water when the water temperature
 is higher than the air temperature, but they differ from cirrus clouds, in that they form much lower to the ground.  FTP, these are what type of clouds that symbolize a fairly stable weather pattern and white balls of cotton in the sky?
\par \tab A: }{\ul\insrsid7413772\charrsid12322996 Cumulus}{\insrsid7413772  clouds
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 7.  At one point, this character wishes his eloped daughter \'93
were dead at my foot and the/Jewels in her ear!  Would she were hears\rquote d at/My foot and my ducats in her coffin!\'94  This speech follows his much more famous protestation of his people\rquote s humanity: \'93if you prick us, do we not bleed?\'94
  Father of Jessica, FTP this is what Shakespearean character out to get a pound of flesh from Antonio in }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 The Merchant of Venice}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 ?
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Shylock
\par }{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 8.  Fed by five major rivers, including the Fox and Menominee, and countless 
small ones, this 307-mile long lake has over 1600 miles of shoreline.  It is also fed by the Kalamazoo River in its southeastern area, and it connects to Lake Huron via the Straits of Mackinac (MAK-i-naw).  Second largest of the Great Lakes by volume, FTP
 this is what lake that lies entirely within the U.S.?
\par \tab A.  Lake }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Michigan}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par 9.  Its current members are Susan Bies, Donald Kohn, Ben Bernanke, Edward Gramlich, Mark Olson, and Vice-Chairman Roger W. Ferguson; along with the chairman, this makes a group of seven.  Established in 1913, eight times a year it publishes the }{
\i\fs24\insrsid7413772\charrsid7413772 Summary of Commentary on Current Economic Conditions}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 , better known as the \'93Beige Book.\'94
  FTP name this board on which members serve terms of fourteen years, currently chaired by Alan Greenspan.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Federal Reserve}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  Board (acc. \'93The }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Fed}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 \'94)\tab 
\par 
\par 10.  An excellent flautist, he was accepted into the University of Chicago at age 15 where he majored in math and philosophy and became interested in the works of Anton Webern (vay-burn) and Alban Berg.  At 23
 he was asked to transcribe the music of Ravi Shankar into notes readable by Western musicians, and he incorporated Indian music into works like }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 Satyagraha}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
.  After the success of his major 1976 opera, he went on to compose offbeat works like }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 Hydrogen Jukebox}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 , }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 The Making of the Representative from Planet 8}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 , and }{
\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 1000 Airplanes on the Roof}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 .  FTP name this American best known for the massive opera}{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772  Einstein on the Beach}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 .
\par \tab A.  Philip }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Glass}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par 11.  This event was precipitated when a young barber\rquote s apprentice named Edward Garrick shouted an insult at Hugh White, a 29}{\fs24\super\insrsid7413772 th}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
 regiment soldier on guard duty, who promptly hit Garrick with his rifle butt.  Garrick\rquote s cries soon drew an unruly mob to King Street, and soon six more soldiers, along with Captain John Preston, confro
nted the angry crowd of 400.  The crowd pelted the soldiers with ice, and after shots rang out, five men lay dead or dying.  Occurring on March 5, 1770, FTP what is this event at which Crispus Attucks became a martyr for the American independence movement
?
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Boston Massacre}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par 12.  Vasari said this artist\rquote s father was a \'93painter of no great merit,\'94 but he did give the boy his first painting le
ssons in Urbino.  As a young man he painted in the workshop of Perugino and finished his first major work, The Marriage of the Virgin in 1504.  Bramante recommended him to Pope Julius II after seeing his Madonna of the Goldfinch, and he came to Rome to cr
eate the frescoes of the Stanza della Signatura in St. Peter\rquote s.  FTP name this artist whose most famous fresco is surely The School of Athens.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Raphael}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  (Raffaello Sanzio)
\par 13.  Some of this writer\rquote s lesser-known works include an autobiography, }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 The Big Sea}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
, and a number of comic prose sketches about the ingenious Jesse B. Semple.  While working as a busboy in a Washington, D.C., restaurant in the 1920s, he put three poems on the plate of the poet Vachel Lindsay, who then claimed to have \'93discovered\'94
 him.  One of those works was \'93Jazzonia,\'94 while another was \'93Negro Dancers.\'94  FTP name this Harlem Renaissance author, perhaps best known for the third of those poems he showed Lindsay, \'93The Weary Blues.\'94
\par \tab A.  Langston }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Hughes}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\hyphpar0\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7413772 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 14.  The major activity that occurs 
in this organelle is glycosylation, or the adding of sugar molecules to produce glycoproteins.  Eventually, some of these proteins will move to the plasma membrane and become embedded there.  Other ways out of this organelle include moving into the lysoso
mes or excretion via exocytosis.  FTP, what is this cell organelle whose most important function is the packaging of proteins after they leave the endoplasmic reticulum?
\par \tab A: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772\charrsid11749904 Golgi}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  complex or apparatus or body
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 15.  It is meant to illustrate, among other thi
ngs, that the terms people use are not names of true, physical objects, but of concepts, images we do not really see.  Prisoners face a wall, while behind them burns a fire in front of which puppeteers move and show objects, shadows of which the figures c
an see.  These prisoners take the shadows for reality and don\rquote t desire to see reality.  FTP this describes what tale used to illustrate the theory of forms in Plato\rquote s }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 Republic}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 ?
\par \tab A. \'93}{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Allegory of the Cave}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 \'94
\par 
\par 16.  It is a work in seven books, each covering one year\rquote 
s action.  Starting in 58 BCE, its author uses a simple third person to describe his campaigning, and its simplicity is the reason that it is considered a basic primer for modern Latin students.  Describing the conquering of the Helvetii (hel-VEESH-ee
-ee), among other tribes, and beginning with the famous line \'93Omnia Gallia in tres partes divisa est,\'94 FTP name this historical work by Julius Caesar.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Commentaries}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  (acc. \'93Commentary\'94) on the }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Gallic Wars}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par 17.  Among some of the all-time greats at this position include Peter Shilton, Lev Yashin, and Gordon Banks.  Germany\rquote s Sepp Maier, nicknamed \'93the Cat,\'94
 had his greatest success when he and his teammates won the 1974 World Cup at home.  Paraguay\rquote s Jose Luis Chilavert is probably the only one}{\fs24\insrsid3297458  at}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  }{\fs24\insrsid3297458 t}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 his po
sition to be used as a specialist in free and penalty kicks.  Current stars include Fabien Barthez and Oliver Kahn.  FTP who are these men who try to keep the ball out of the net in soccer?
\par \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 goalkeepers}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  (acc. goalies)
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\hyphpar0\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7413772 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 18.  As a researcher at the US Fish and Wildlife Services, she wrote several books about the sea, including }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 
The Sea Around Us}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 ; their success allowed her the freedom to write her most famous book. When published in 1962, the pesticide industry tried to have the book suppressed, and corporat
e sponsors withdrew from CBS when they aired reports about her accusations. Al Gore has credited this woman with jump-starting the E.P.A. FTP, who is this woman, who bravely wrote about the environmental toxins that eventually killed her in }{
\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 Silent Spring}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 ?\~
\par \tab Answer: Rachel }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772\charrsid11749904 Carson}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 \~
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par 19.  She dies from a bullet fired from her own gun during a scuffle with Miss Pross near the end of the novel.  Her sister was raped and her brother tortured by members of the Evremonde family, causing her hatred of them and their class.  A }{
\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 tricoteuse}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
, she especially wants to revenge herself on the last remaining relatives of the Evremondes, Lucie Manette and Charles Darnay.  FTP name this woman who stitches the names of aristocrats destined for the guillotine into her knitting in }{
\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 A Tale of Two Cities}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 .
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Madame Defarge}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par 20.  His lack of political acumen is illustrated by his comment that the issue of slavery in the territories was \'93happily, a matter of but little practical importance\'94 as the Supreme Court would soon settle it.  
Two days later the Dred Scott decision inflamed anti-slavery feelings in the North and caused his own Democratic Party to split into Northern and Southern factions, neither of which nominated him for re-election.  This split allowed the Republican nominee
, Abraham Lincoln, to win the 1860 election easily.  FTP name this only bachelor president, the 15}{\fs24\super\insrsid7413772 th}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  overall.
\par \tab A.  James }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Buchanan}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid7413772\charrsid7413772 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par DB 2003 Round 1 Boni
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 1.  Answer the following about a famous Civil War clash FTSNOP.
\par A.  For five points each, name the two \'93ironclad\'94 ships that squared off on March 9, 1862 (note:  we want the original name of the Confederate ship here).
\par \tab A.  USS }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Monitor}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  and CSS }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Merrimack}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par B.  For ten, what did the Confederates rechristen the Merrimack after re-outfitting it?
\par \tab A.  CSS }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Virginia}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par C.  For ten more, the battle between the two ships is generally referred to as this, named for the geographical location of the fight.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Hampton Roads}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par 2.  Impress Valencia coach Boris Nguyen by answering the following about Buddhism FTPE.
\par A. Free from passion, desire and pain, this is the highest plane of existence one can achieve according to Buddhists.
\par \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Nirvana}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par B. This is the cycle of birth, suffering, death and rebirth that is ended by the attainment of moksha.
\par \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Samsara}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par C. In Mahayana Buddhism, this is the wise person who postpones the attainment of Nirvana in order to help guide others there.
\par \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Bodhisattva}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par 3.  Name the Americans who composed the following FTPE.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-5040\li5040\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\faauto\rin0\lin5040\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 A.  Rodeo; Billy the Kid\tab \tab \tab \tab A.  Aaron }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Copland}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 

\par B.  Concord Sonata; Three Places in New England\tab A.  Charles }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Ives}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par C.  Porgy and Bess\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab A.  George }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Gershwin}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\hyphpar0\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7413772 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 4.  Given some creatures in a phylum, identify the phylum, FTPE.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-360\li360\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx360\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\rin0\lin360\itap0\pararsid7413772 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 A.\tab sponges\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772\charrsid11749904 porifera}{
\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par B.\tab starfish, sea urchins, sea cucumbers\tab Answer: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772\charrsid11749904 echinodermata}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  (or echinoderms)
\par C.\tab duck-billed platypus, echidna\tab \tab Answer: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772\charrsid11749904 monotremata}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  (or monotremes)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 5.  Name these \'93lovely\'94 works by D.H. Lawrence FTPE.
\par A.  This novel sparked controversy for its frank depiction of sexual desire and action between the title character and her estate\rquote s gamekeeper, Mellors.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Lady Chatterly\rquote s Lover}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par B.  This novel charts the coming-of-age of Paul Morel and his romances with Clara Dawes and Miriam Leivers.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Sons and Lovers}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par C.  The title characters are the Brangwen sisters, who first appeared in Lawrence\rquote s novel }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 The Rainbow}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 , and it focuses on their relationships with Gerard and Rupert.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Women in Love}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 6.  Name these Mesoamerican peoples FTPE.
\par A.  The oldest civilization in pre-Columbian America, these people dominated what is now Western Mexico from 1500-400 BCE and are known by their carving of enormous stone heads.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Olmec}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 (s)
\par B.  Flourishing in the Yucatan and other Central American areas from around 200-850 CE, these people built the great cities of Tikal and Chichen Itza.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Maya}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 (ns)
\par C.  Following the Maya and preceding the Aztecs, this militaristic people eliminated the Mayan practice of human sacrifice.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Toltec}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 (s)
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7413772 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 7.  }{\fs24\insrsid7413772\charrsid7413772 FTPE find the slope of the straight lines with the given equations
\par A}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 .}{\fs24\insrsid7413772\charrsid7413772  y = 3x \endash  2\tab \tab }{\fs24\insrsid7413772 \tab }{\fs24\insrsid7413772\charrsid7413772 A. 3
\par B}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 . }{\fs24\insrsid7413772\charrsid7413772 2x \endash  4y = 10\tab \tab A.\'bdx 
\par C}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 .}{\fs24\insrsid7413772\charrsid7413772  x = 5\tab \tab \tab A. does not exist (}{\b\fs24\insrsid7413772\charrsid7413772 DO NOT}{\fs24\insrsid7413772\charrsid7413772  accept zero)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par 8.  In 2002, Forbes Magazine made a fun list of the richest fifteen fictional characters.  Name these members of the list FTPE.
\par A.  Number two behind Santa Claus, this young man is listed as having 24.7 billion and enjoying the services of his robot maid, Irona.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Richie Rich}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par B.  Number eight on the list with 4.7 billion, this founder of LexCorp is noted for his many inventions and attempts to destroy a powerful enemy.
\par \tab A.  Lex }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Luthor}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par C.  The only tenant of Hell Hall, this fan of exotic furs is said to be worth 875 million.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Cruella}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  da Vil
\par 
\par 
\par 9.  I\rquote ll name a U.S. city, and you tell me the first state into which you\rquote d pass if you drove due west from there FFPE.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-3600\li3600\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\faauto\rin0\lin3600\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 A.  Little Rock, Arkansas\tab \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Oklahoma}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par B.  Casper, Wyoming\tab \tab \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Idaho}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par C.  Chicago, Illinois\tab \tab \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Iowa}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par D.  Minneapolis, Minnesota\tab \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 South Dakota}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par E.  Boston, Massachusetts\tab \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 New York}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par F.  Memphis, Tennessee\tab \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Arkansas}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 10.  Answer the following about an art movement FTPE.
\par A.  This term was coined by poet Gillaume Apollonaire.  As an art movement of the 1920s and 30s, its aims were to free the unconscious and juxtapose the mundane and the fantastic.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Surrealism}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par B.  This former physician wrote the Surrealist Manifesto and considered himself the leader of the movement, exiling those who broke from his views.
\par \tab A.  Andre }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Breton}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par C.  This German-born artist was prominent in both Dada and Surrealism.  An advocate of collage and frottage, his works include the Elephant Celebes and Chris\rquote s favorite, Two Children Threatened by a Nightingale.
\par \tab A.  Max }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Ernst}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par 11.  Stuff about a certain novel FTPE.
\par A.  This satirical novel features Amelia Sedley and her brother Jos, who loves Amelia\rquote s friend.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Vanity Fair}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par B.  Who wrote Vanity Fair?
\par \tab A.  William Makepeace }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Thackeray}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par C.  Who is Amelia\rquote s friend, who marries Rawdon Crawley but keeps the love of Jos.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Becky}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Sharp}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  (acc. either name)
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\hyphpar0\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7413772 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 12.  Identify the following Nobel Laureates, FTPE.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-360\li360\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx360\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\rin0\lin360\itap0\pararsid7413772 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 A.\tab For five points per person, name two of the three men awarded the Nobel Prize in
\par Medicine in 1962 for the structure of DNA.
\par \tab \tab A. Francis }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772\charrsid7413772 Crick}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 , Maurice }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772\charrsid7413772 Wilkins}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 , James }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772\charrsid7413772 Watson}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
 (any two, any order)}{\fs24\insrsid7413772\charrsid7413772 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid7413772 B.\tab Several scientists have received a Nobel Prize more than once.  This one won his prize in
\par Chemistry for his research on bonding, and his Peace prize for his efforts to secure a ban on
\par nuclear testing.
\par \tab A. Linus }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772\charrsid7413772 Pauling}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par C.\tab This man won the Nobel Prize in Physics for discoveries leading to the classification of
\par elementary particles and their interactions.  His best-known book is }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 The Quark and the Jaguar}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 .
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\hyphpar0\faauto\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid7413772 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 \tab A. Murray }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772\charrsid7413772 Gell-Mann}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 13.  That Zeus was quite a randy fellow; answer the following about his liaisons FTPE.
\par A. Zeus cheated on poor Hera with the goddess Mnemonsyne (neh-mah-zuh-nee) and gave birth to these nine daughters.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Muses}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par B. Zeus took on the guise of a white bull to lure this beautiful maiden away for some lovin\rquote .  Their offspring were Minos, Rhadamanthys and Sarpedon.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Europa}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par C. Continuing with his somewhat creepy bovine thing, Zeus quickly changed this lover of his into a white heifer to trick Hera, but it didn\rquote t work and Hera sent a gadfly to chase this woman in cow form around the Earth.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Io}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 14.  Answer the following about the Civil Rights movement in the 50s and 60s FTPE.
\par A.  This name refers to those who rode interstate buses in the summer of 1961 in order to challenge desegregation laws.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Freedom Riders}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par B.  Founded in 1942, this non-violent civil rights group sponsored the Freedom Riders and co-sponsored the March on Washington.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 CORE}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  (Congress on Racial Equality)
\par C .  This group was founded by Martin Luther King, Jr. in 1957 in Atlanta in order to promote integration in the South.
\par \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 SCLC}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  (Southern Christian Leadership Conference)
\par 
\par 15.  Your choice, team: identify the artist behind some of the top ten songs of the years 1967 or 1977 FTPE; choose now!  (Reader: read only the bonus for the year the team has chosen).
\par 
\par 1967
\par }\pard \ql \fi-3600\li3600\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\faauto\rin0\lin3600\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 A. \'93Daydream Believer\'94\tab \tab A.  The }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Monkees}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par B. \'93The Letter\'94\tab \tab \tab A.  The }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Box Tops}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par C. \'93Happy Together\'94\tab \tab \tab A.  The }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Turtles}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 1977
\par }\pard \ql \fi-3600\li3600\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\faauto\rin0\lin3600\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 A. \'93You Light up My Life\'94 \tab \tab A.  Debby }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Boone}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par B. \'93How Deep Is Your Love?\'94\tab A.  The }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Bee Gees}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par C. \'93Rich Girl\'94\tab \tab \tab \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Hall and Oates}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 16.  Stuff about cities in Hell for fifteen points each.
\par A.  Now often used to refer to any chaos, this is Satan\rquote s capital city of Hell in Milton\rquote s }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 Paradise Lost}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 .
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Pandemonium}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par B.  In Dante\rquote s }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 Inferno}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 , this is the capital of Hell.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Dis}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\hyphpar0\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7413772 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 17.  Identify the following scientific organizations from their abbreviations, FTPE.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-360\li360\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx360\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\rin0\lin360\itap0\pararsid7413772 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 A.  HGP\tab \tab Answer: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772\charrsid7413772 Human Genome Project}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 

\par B.\tab USDA\tab \tab Answer: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772\charrsid7413772 United States Department of Agriculture}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par C.\tab NSF\tab \tab Answer: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772\charrsid7413772 National Science Foundation}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 18.  }{\fs24\insrsid10559105 Identify these African kingdoms for fifteen points; if you need the capital of its current namesake, you\rquote ll only get five.}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid10559105 A. (15 pts.) This Western African kingdom flourished along valuable gold and spice trade routes from 800 CE until falling to the Almoravids in 1054.
\par       (5 pts.)  The modern nation with this name has capital at Accra.
\par \tab \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10559105\charrsid10559105 Ghana}{\fs24\insrsid10559105 
\par B. (15 pts.)  This empire destroyed the last remnants of Ghana and flourished from its founding in the 13th century by Sundiata until its subjugation by the Songhai in the 15th century.
\par       (5 pts.)   This modern nation has capital at Bamako.
\par \tab \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10559105\charrsid10559105 Mali}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 19.  Answer the following about those pillars of Islam FTPE.
\par A. By now you know about fasting during Ramadan, but exceptions are made for men if they are sick or doing this.
\par \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 traveling}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  (acc. obvious equivalents)
\par B. The pilgrimage to Mecca that is incumbent upon those who can physically and financially make it is known as this in Arabic.
\par \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Haj}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par C. During the five times of daily prayer, Muslims must face this small building in Mecca.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Ka\rquote aba}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par 20.  Name these South African authors for fifteen points each.
\par A.  This man born in Natal is the author of }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 Cry, the Beloved Country}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  and }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 Too Late the Phalarope}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 .
\par \tab A.  Alan }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Paton}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par B.  This woman, winner of the 1991 Nobel for Literature, is best known for }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 The Burgher\rquote s Daughter}{\fs24\insrsid7413772  and }{\i\fs24\insrsid7413772 The Conservationist}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 .
\par \tab A.  Nadine }{\fs24\ul\insrsid7413772 Gordimer}{\fs24\insrsid7413772 
\par 
\par 
\par }}