{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f35\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f36\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}WP TypographicSymbols;}{\f37\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR;}
{\f40\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times};}{\f41\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f42\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f44\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f45\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f46\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f47\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f48\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f49\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f391\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f392\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}{\f394\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f395\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f396\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}
{\f397\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}{\f398\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}{\f399\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Tahoma (Vietnamese);}{\f400\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Tahoma (Thai);}{\f411\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR CE;}
{\f412\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR Cyr;}{\f414\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR Greek;}{\f415\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR Tur;}{\f416\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR (Hebrew);}
{\f417\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR (Arabic);}{\f418\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR Baltic;}{\f419\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR (Vietnamese);}{\f441\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times CE{\*\falt Times};}
{\f442\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times Cyr{\*\falt Times};}{\f444\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times Greek{\*\falt Times};}{\f445\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times Tur{\*\falt Times};}{\f446\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times (Hebrew){\*\falt Times};}
{\f447\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times (Arabic){\*\falt Times};}{\f448\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times Baltic{\*\falt Times};}{\f449\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive 
\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f35\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \ssemihidden \styrsid5392163 Balloon Text;}{\s16\qj \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 \styrsid12397521 Body Text Indent 2;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid8004\rsid395875\rsid465886\rsid488147\rsid533545\rsid658105\rsid864545\rsid1071798\rsid1079778\rsid1141298\rsid1452873
\rsid1657228\rsid2374766\rsid2439179\rsid2445834\rsid2565424\rsid2634985\rsid2757700\rsid3240177\rsid3307542\rsid3308119\rsid3308311\rsid3343981\rsid3362285\rsid3609360\rsid3738965\rsid3761340\rsid3809751\rsid3898083\rsid3999795\rsid4225967\rsid4552457
\rsid4723871\rsid4994493\rsid5255019\rsid5392163\rsid5596579\rsid5645469\rsid5855676\rsid6047627\rsid6048087\rsid6228662\rsid6298572\rsid6322906\rsid6367795\rsid6426571\rsid6513192\rsid6829055\rsid6834744\rsid6846793\rsid6900856\rsid6967790\rsid7153837
\rsid7480723\rsid7564768\rsid7885811\rsid7997985\rsid8089750\rsid8144423\rsid8414532\rsid8594120\rsid8596105\rsid8607814\rsid8660194\rsid8783330\rsid8805286\rsid8811521\rsid8849225\rsid8865403\rsid8915078\rsid8985730\rsid9185474\rsid9311533\rsid9372376
\rsid9571438\rsid9840477\rsid9925444\rsid9964149\rsid9973110\rsid10114865\rsid10313749\rsid10435087\rsid10499556\rsid10620600\rsid10759861\rsid10780580\rsid10833748\rsid11370276\rsid11406670\rsid11616425\rsid11822730\rsid12321718\rsid12389954\rsid12397521
\rsid12479468\rsid12587660\rsid12715315\rsid13051645\rsid13107934\rsid13255200\rsid13311762\rsid14355757\rsid14769920\rsid14830716\rsid15497775\rsid15752032\rsid15798794\rsid15808056\rsid15879384\rsid15939695\rsid16065887\rsid16069725\rsid16142251
\rsid16469019\rsid16589150\rsid16662670\rsid16725935}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.3416;}{\info{\title ISU Fall Tournament 2003 Round 2}{\author  }{\operator cborglum}{\creatim\yr2003\mo10\dy10\hr11\min45}{\revtim\yr2003\mo11\dy7\hr10\min25}
{\printim\yr2003\mo11\dy7\hr10\min25}{\version11}{\edmins121}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords3660}{\nofchars20867}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws24479}{\vern16453}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot6426571 \fet0\sectd 
\pgnrestart\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\header \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\kerning0\insrsid8865403 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\kerning0\insrsid8865403 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid10114865 Valencia Fall Invitational}{\insrsid13255200 
\par }{\insrsid10114865 Round 6\emdash Questions by Matt C. of Iowa State (lightly edited for gentleness by CB)
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid15752032 1)}{\insrsid9571438  This Scot\rquote s}{\insrsid13255200 
 vices were womanizing - he contracted gonorrhea seventeen times in thirty years - and watching public executions.  Although a lawyer by trade, h}{\insrsid12389954 e gained re}{\insrsid13255200 nown for his monthly series in }{\i\insrsid13255200 
London Magazine}{\insrsid13255200 , \'93The Hypochondriak,\'94 as well as his }{\i\insrsid13255200 Account of Corsica }{\insrsid13255200 which defended the island\rquote s independence movement.  }{\insrsid9571438 B}{\insrsid13255200 est known}{
\insrsid9571438  for describing his relationship with another writer,}{\insrsid12389954  FTP identify this author}{\insrsid13255200  }{\i\insrsid13255200 The Life of Samuel Johnson}{\insrsid13255200 .
\par \tab Answer: James }{\ul\insrsid13255200 Boswell}{\insrsid13255200 .
\par 
\par }{\insrsid15752032 2)}{\insrsid13255200  }{\insrsid9571438 This man}{\insrsid13255200  built the Garden of Fidelity in Kabul after its 1504 conquest, but despite renunciation of his Sunni faith and an alliance with Shah Ismail of Persia}{\insrsid9571438 ,
}{\insrsid13255200  he failed to permanently re-conquer his ancestral capital, Samarkand, from the Uzbeks.  Instead, in al
liance with Alam Khan, he took up arms against Ibrahim Lodi, defeating him at the 1526 battle of Panipat and capturing Delhi which became the capital of his new empire.  FTP name thi}{\insrsid8607814 
s founder of the Mughal dynasty, who was not an elephant.}{\insrsid13255200 
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid13255200 Babur }{\insrsid13255200 or }{\ul\insrsid13255200 Babar}{\insrsid13255200 .
\par 
\par }{\insrsid15752032 3)}{\insrsid13255200 
 Close to 400 manuscripts of it have been discovered making it second only to the Bible in Medieval popularity, and such renowned personages as Chaucer, Queen Elizabeth, and Alfred the Great translated it.  It combines verse and a prose dialog
ue between the author and the title figure who argues that power and fame are not intrinsically valuable because they can be used for evil.}{\insrsid9571438   Written while its author awaited execution in 522 CE,}{\insrsid13255200 
 FTP name this philosophical tract written by Boethius.
\par \tab Answer: The }{\ul\insrsid13255200 Consolation of Philosophy}{\insrsid13255200  or }{\ul\insrsid13255200 De Consolatione Philosophiae}{\insrsid13255200 .
\par }{\insrsid15752032 
\par 4)}{\insrsid12321718  After this reaction takes place one of the products is recovered using a vacuum pump while the other is precipitated by sodium ch}{\insrsid11616425 loride.  It can be defined as}{\insrsid12321718  the alkaline hydrolysis, ca
talyzed by a strong acid or  base, of fatty acid esters.  More specifically}{\insrsid3999795  it occurs when}{\insrsid12321718  an aqueous potassium or sodium hydroxide is
 used as a treatment to decompose Triglycerides giving as products glycerol and fatty acid salts.  FTP identify this process which creates soap.}{\insrsid15752032 
\par }{\insrsid12321718 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid12321718\charrsid12321718 Saponification}{\insrsid12321718 .
\par }{\insrsid10313749 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8783330 {\insrsid15752032 5)}{\insrsid8783330  }{\f40\cf1\insrsid8783330 He was born in 1869 in the Tyumen district of Siberia and fell in with an orthodox
 sect, the Skopsty, who believed that the only way to reach God was through sinful actions. He eventually made his way to St. Petersburg where church leaders were looking for charismatic people to bolster their power. In 1907 he was brought in by the ruli
ng family as a healer for their hemophiliac son, Alexander.  Ultimately killed by Prince Felix Yusupov after being poisoned, shot and drowned in the Neva, FTP what man was believed to gain supernatural control over the Romanoff Tsarina.  
\par \tab Answer: Grigory Efimovich }{\f40\ul\cf1\insrsid8783330\charrsid8783330 Rasputin}{\b\f40\ul\cf1\insrsid8783330 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10313749 {\insrsid10313749 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid15752032 6)}{\insrsid9571438   A graduate of Duke law school, this man joined the Navy in 1942 and served in the Pacific Theater.  }{\insrsid10759861 
He He won a House seat from California after the war in 1946 and defeated Helen Douglas in 1950 in an ugly race dominated by his cha
rges of her communist sympathies.  Two years later he became Vice-President.  FTP name this man who lost his bid for the California governorship in 1962, but was lying when he said the American people wouldn\rquote 
t have him to kick around anymore, as he became president in 1968}{\insrsid10313749 .
\par }{\insrsid10759861 \tab Answer:  Richard Milhous }{\ul\insrsid10759861\charrsid10759861 Nixon}{\insrsid10759861 
\par }{\insrsid15752032 
\par }{\insrsid10114865 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10759861 {\insrsid15752032 7)}{\insrsid8089750  }{\f40\cf1\insrsid10759861 
Characterized by their heavy, ungainly bodies, these creatures of genus Latimeria were dominant in the Devonian period.  Related to lungfish, their most distinctive features are their stumpy leglike f
ins and vestigial lungs, which have generated speculation that these and their relatives were the original ancestors of today's amphibians.  For ten points, name these fish, once thought long extinct, but  rediscovered in 1938 off the coast of South Afric
a.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f40\ul\cf1\insrsid10759861\charrsid10759861 coelacanths}{\b\f40\ul\cf1\insrsid10759861 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8089750 {\insrsid15752032 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10313749 {\insrsid10313749 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10759861 {\insrsid15752032 8)}{\insrsid10759861   }{\f40\cf1\insrsid10759861 The father in Kleist\rquote s }{\i\f40\cf1\insrsid10759861 The Marquise of O}{\f40\cf1\insrsid10759861 
 is revealed through this.  Other examples include King Louis XIV in }{\i\f40\cf1\insrsid10759861 Tartuffe}{\f40\cf1\insrsid10759861 , and Fawkes in }{\i\f40\cf1\insrsid10759861 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, }{\f40\cf1\insrsid10759861 
while Athena in the }{\i\f40\cf1\insrsid10759861 Orestia}{\f40\cf1\insrsid10759861  and Helios in }{\i\f40\cf1\insrsid10759861 Medea}{\f40\cf1\insrsid10759861 
 are famous early instances; its name comes fron the crane used to lower the titular character/literary device onto the stage in Greco-Roman tragedies. FTP which literary device involves an outside force interfering and solving all plot conflict or saving
 the characters from imminent doom, Latin for \'93god out of the machine\'94.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f40\ul\cf1\insrsid10759861\charrsid10759861 Deus ex Machina}{\f40\cf1\insrsid10759861  (DAY-us ex MA-key-nah)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16469019 {\insrsid13255200 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid13255200 
\par }{\insrsid15752032 9)}{\insrsid13255200   In the background one can see a tree outside a large window supported by columns as well as a myrtle plant on the windowsill.  To t
he right of this are two female servants; one is wearing red and slightly bent over and the other, clad in white, is on her knees rummaging through clothing in a chest.  The titular figure in the foreground is emphatically separated from them by a dark dr
ape stretching half-way across the painting.  She is reclining on a bed and at her feet lies a sleeping dog. She holds a bunc}{\insrsid12389954 h of roses in her right hand but}{\insrsid10114865 
 whether she is hiding or pleasuring herself with her left has been debated}{\insrsid13255200 .  FTP identify this painting of a}{\insrsid10114865  nude Roman goddess }{\insrsid13255200 by Titian.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid13255200 Venus of Urbino}{\insrsid13255200 .
\par }{\insrsid15752032 
\par 10)}{\insrsid1141298  }{\insrsid9185474 Denharm Harmon asserts that}{\insrsid2565424  it is caused }{\insrsid9185474 by free radical compounds while Error Catastrophe Theory}{\insrsid2565424  attributes it to accelerating errors in protein transcription }
{\insrsid9185474 while.  Still a}{\insrsid2565424 nother theory points to the Hayflick limit}{\insrsid9185474  -}{\insrsid2565424 
 a set, specific clonal lifespan.  On the cellular level it is synonymous with senescence, the inability to produce while still being metabolically alive.  FTP identify this process synonymous on the human level with getting older.}{\insrsid15752032 

\par }{\insrsid2565424 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid2565424\charrsid2565424 Aging}{\insrsid2565424  (accept senescence before it is mentioned}{\insrsid395875  and prompt on gerontology}{\insrsid2565424 ).
\par }{\insrsid13255200 
\par }{\insrsid15752032 11)}{\insrsid13255200  Herodotus, who associated her with Artemis, said that her fes}{\insrsid7564768 tival attracted 700,000}{\insrsid13255200  followers - who partied on barges and then got drunk - the mo
st of any Egyptian deity.  The Pyramid texts refer to her as the mother of Yinepu or Anubis and, similarly to Tefnut, she is often depicted holding an ankh.  Primarily a goddess of Lower Egypt, she was worshipped at Memphis in conjunc}{\insrsid7564768 
tion with Sekhmet who, like her, was}{\insrsid13255200  personification of the}{\insrsid7564768  sun\lquote s rays}{\insrsid13255200 .  }{\insrsid7564768 Along with both Sekhmet and Hathor she is referred to as \'93The Eye of Ra.\'94 }{\insrsid13255200 
FTP name this goddess with the head of a household cat.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid13255200 Bast}{\insrsid13255200  or }{\ul\insrsid13255200 Bastet}{\insrsid13255200  or }{\ul\insrsid13255200 Bubastis}{\insrsid13255200 .
\par }{\insrsid10313749 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10313749 {\insrsid15752032 12)}{\insrsid10313749  His later works include the opera }{\i\insrsid10313749\charrsid11406670 The Wandering Scholar}{\insrsid10313749 
 and a tone poem based on Hardy\rquote s }{\i\insrsid10313749\charrsid11406670 Return of the Native}{\insrsid10313749 , }{\i\insrsid10313749\charrsid11406670 Egdon Heath}{\insrsid7564768  .  He was }{\insrsid10313749 
interested in Sanskrit literature and composed the }{\i\insrsid10313749\charrsid7564768 Vedic Hymns}{\insrsid10313749  and two operas, }{\i\insrsid10313749\charrsid11406670 Sita}{\insrsid10313749  and }{\i\insrsid10313749\charrsid11406670 Savitri}{
\insrsid10313749  based on Indian texts.  Although he was only nineteen when he had his first opera, }{\i\insrsid10313749\charrsid11406670 Lansdown Castle}{\insrsid10313749 
, performed he spent much of his time composing for amateur groups best exemplified by the }{\i\insrsid10313749\charrsid11406670 St. Paul\rquote s Suite}{\insrsid10313749  for the girl\rquote s school at which he taught.  He is 
known mainly for one work, a seven-part tone poem which he described as \'93a series of mood pictures\'94 FTP name the composer of }{\i\insrsid10313749\charrsid11406670 The Planets}{\insrsid10313749 .
\par \tab Answer: Gustav }{\ul\insrsid10313749\charrsid11406670 Holst}{\insrsid10313749 .
\par 
\par }{\insrsid15752032 13)}{\insrsid10313749\charrsid7997985  It is one of the best places to observe large whales because of the enormous plankton bloo
ms there.  Cities on it include Hampton, Moncton, Parssboro and St. George and it has two upper arms: Chignecto Bay and Minas Basin. Access to it is through the Gulf of Main}{\insrsid10313749  and}{\insrsid10313749\charrsid7997985 
 its chief port is St. John.}{\insrsid10313749   It receives and releases over 100 billion tons of sea-water each day which produces its most notable feature.}{\insrsid10313749\charrsid7997985   FTP identify this}{\insrsid10313749  large}{
\insrsid10313749\charrsid7997985  inlet of the Atlantic between New Bruns}{\insrsid10313749 wick and Nova Scotia}{\insrsid7564768  known for its}{\insrsid10313749\charrsid7997985  50 foot tides.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid10313749\charrsid7997985 Bay of Fundy}{\insrsid10313749\charrsid7997985 .}{\insrsid10313749 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid15752032 14)}{\insrsid13255200   }{\insrsid3343981 Of unknown authorship, it was first transcribed in t
he 14th century and is set in the sixth century, starting on Christmas Eve.  The first title character accepts the challenge of the second to strike him one blow in return for a counterblow to be offered a year later.  After the good knight beheads the gi
ant, the giant picks up his head and rides off.  In the meantime, the good knight is hosted by Sir Bercilak, who issues him further tests and later turns out to be the giant who appeared earlier.  This describes, FTP, what tale ascribed to the \'93
Pearl Poet\'94 about a knight of the round table and a colorful opponent?}{\insrsid13255200 
\par }{\insrsid3343981 \tab Answer:  }{\i\insrsid3343981\charrsid3343981 Sir }{\i\ul\insrsid3343981\charrsid3343981 Gawain and the Green Knight}{\insrsid3343981 
\par }{\insrsid13255200 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10499556 {\insrsid15752032 15)}{\insrsid13255200  }{\insrsid10499556 
The narrator of the story is an easterner who has been asked to call on a talkative miner named Simon Wheeler, who proceeds to tell him a tall tale ab
out the exploits of Jim Smiley.  Smiley would bet on anything, including which bird would leave a tree branch first.  Smiley also had a bull pup named Andrew Jackson which died after losing a fight to a three-legged dog.  But Smiley\rquote 
s best known pet is the title creature, a frog named Dan\rquote l Webster.  FTP name this story set in California by Mark Twain.
\par \tab Answer:  The }{\ul\insrsid10499556\charrsid10499556 Notorious}{\insrsid10499556  (acc. }{\ul\insrsid10499556\charrsid10499556 Celebrated}{\insrsid10499556 ) }{\ul\insrsid10499556\charrsid10499556 Jumping Frog of Calaveras County}{
\b\f40\ul\cf1\insrsid10499556 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid13255200 
\par }{\insrsid15752032 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12397521 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15752032 16)}{\insrsid1141298  }{\fs20\insrsid12397521\charrsid3809751 
As the captain of the }{\i\fs20\insrsid12397521\charrsid3809751 Stargazer}{\fs20\insrsid12397521\charrsid3809751 
, he became the hero of the Battle of Maxia.  He was romantically involved with few women, but most notable were his romances with Jenice Manheim and the archaeologist and treasure huntress Vash.  }{\fs20\insrsid12397521 He }{
\fs20\insrsid12397521\charrsid3809751 has a younger double who leads the Reman rebellion and jeopardizes the uneasy peace between their societies. As Locutus, he nearly destroys all of his comrades, and he later finds that he has a son \endash 
 or perhaps not.   Name this captain of the USS }{\i\fs20\insrsid12397521\charrsid3809751 Enterprise}{\fs20\insrsid12397521\charrsid3809751 , a native of La Barre, France.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12397521 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12397521\charrsid3809751 Answer:  Captain Jean-Luc }{
\ul\insrsid12397521\charrsid3809751 Picard
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid3738965 
\par }{\insrsid15752032 
\par 17)}{\insrsid8144423 
 It has a period of about six days and acts as an obstacle to oncoming gas which it deflects to the north or south.   To the north of it winds blow westward relative to it while to the south winds blow to the east.  It varies in size; someti
mes it is smaller than the earth and sometimes three times larger. Continually observed for nearly 400 years, it rotates counterclockwise like other southern high pressure regions and many scientists believe that sulfur and phosphorous compounds are the c
ause of its distinctive color.  FTP identify this enormous atmospheric storm located in the southern hemisphere of Jupiter.}{\insrsid15752032 
\par }{\insrsid8144423 \tab Answer: The }{\ul\insrsid8144423\charrsid8144423 Great Red Spot}{\insrsid8144423 .
\par }{\insrsid13255200 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6047627 {\insrsid15752032 18)}{\insrsid13255200  }{\f37\insrsid6047627\charrsid13311762 
A Franciscan, in 1474 he led an army to restore papal authority in Umbria, subduing the towns of Todi and Spoleto.  In gratitude, Sixtus VI elevated him to the position of Archiepiscopal See of Avignon, though his fathering of three daughters shows he was
 hardly overly devout.  On Sixtus}{\f37\insrsid6047627\charrsid13311762 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 61 \\f "WP TypographicSymbols" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f36\fs20}}}{\f37\insrsid6047627\charrsid13311762 
s death he aspired to the papacy, but seeing his chances slim, bribed other cardinals to elect the man who became Innocent VIII, as he knew he could manipulate him.  His own chanc
e came in 1503, and he was selected after the shortest conclave ever.  FTP name this pope, born Guiliano Della Rovere, best known as a patron of artists like Michelangelo and Raphael.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6047627 {\f37\insrsid6047627\charrsid13311762 A.  }{
\f37\ul\insrsid6047627\charrsid13311762 Julius II}{\f37\insrsid6047627\charrsid13311762 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid9964149 
\par 19)}{\insrsid6322906   From 1964-70, under Eduardo Frei}{\insrsid5855676 ,}{\insrsid6322906 , this party held power in Chile}{\insrsid5855676  while another of the same name ruled Venezuela from 1968-83.  In Europe it currently holds power }{
\insrsid6322906 in seven of fifteen EU countries }{\insrsid5855676 and is}{\insrsid6322906  heavily represented in the European Parliament under the aegis of European People\rquote s Party.}{\insrsid5855676   T}{\insrsid6322906 he Italian v
ersion was founded by Alcide De Gasperi and,}{\insrsid5855676  after}{\insrsid6322906  corruption}{\insrsid5855676  charges}{\insrsid6322906  in the early nineties, has morphed into the Forza Italia.  The German one was founded by Konrad Adena}{
\insrsid5855676 uer in 1945 and later returned to power under Helmut Kohl}{\insrsid6322906 .  FTP identify this center-right party }{\insrsid5855676 emphasizing certain religious values.}{\insrsid9964149 
\par }{\insrsid5855676 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid5855676\charrsid5855676 Christian Democrat}{\insrsid5855676 s. (accept Christian Democratic Union or Christian Democracy).
\par }{\insrsid9964149 
\par 20)}{\insrsid5392163   In one part of this long work the title character\rquote 
s three sons travel north to the dismal land of Pohjola to find a bride for the eldest and also to find the Sampo, a magic mill that grinds out meal and gold.  Beginning with a creation myth, it was compiled from oral recitations in the early 1800s by Eli
as Lonnrott.  Its alliterative, unrhymed trochees provided a poetic style used by Longfellow in Hiawatha.  Featuring Vainomoinen and Lemminkanen, FTP what is this Finnish national epic?}{\insrsid10435087 
\par }{\insrsid5392163 \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid5392163\charrsid5392163 Kalevala}{\insrsid5392163 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16065887 {\insrsid8783330 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid16065887 Valencia Fall Invitational 2003\emdash Round 6 Boni}{\insrsid2374766 
\par }{\insrsid16065887 
\par }{\insrsid16142251 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2374766 {\insrsid4723871 Bonus}{\insrsid2634985  1}{\insrsid4723871 : }{\insrsid864545  Identify the \'93artists\'94 (ha!) behind these songs, all of which are favorites of Seminole
\rquote s Bonnie Tensen and are currently in the Billboard Top Ten.  Five points each with a bonus five for getting them all.}{\insrsid2374766 
\par }{\insrsid864545 A. \'93Baby Boy\'94\tab \tab \tab A.  }{\ul\insrsid864545\charrsid864545 Beyonce}{\insrsid864545  (apparently featuring some dude named Sean Paul)
\par B. \'93Holidae In\'94 \tab \tab \tab A.  }{\ul\insrsid864545\charrsid864545 Chingy}{\insrsid864545  (featuring Snoop Dogg and Ludacris)
\par C. \'93Rain on Me\'94\tab \tab \tab A.  }{\ul\insrsid864545\charrsid864545 Ashanti}{\insrsid864545 
\par D. \'93Why Don\rquote t You and I\'94\tab A.  }{\ul\insrsid864545\charrsid864545 Santana}{\insrsid864545 
\par E. \'93Here Without You\'94\tab \tab A.  }{\ul\insrsid864545\charrsid864545 Three Doors Down}{\insrsid864545 
\par }{\insrsid14830716 
\par }{\insrsid16142251 
\par }{\insrsid14830716 Bonus}{\insrsid2634985  2}{\insrsid14830716 : Identify stuff about a British writer FTPE.
\par A. This writer planned a massive }{\i\insrsid14830716\charrsid14830716 History of the World}{\insrsid14830716 
 to begin with the Creation.  However, he only took it up to 168 B.C. partly due to the death of his patron Henry, Prince of Wales but also because of his continual imprisonment by James I on treason charges.
\par \tab Answer: Sir Walter }{\ul\insrsid14830716\charrsid14830716 Rale}{\ul\insrsid16065887 i}{\ul\insrsid14830716\charrsid14830716 gh}{\insrsid14830716 .
\par B. Another of Ralegh\rquote s ambitious projects was this long poem to Queen Elizabeth.  It was intended to contain 21 books but he did not publish it and today it survives only in fragments.
\par \tab Answer: The }{\ul\insrsid14830716\charrsid14830716 Ocean to Cynthia}{\insrsid14830716 .
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid14830716 {\insrsid14830716 C. Rale}{\insrsid16065887 i}{\insrsid14830716 gh\rquote s most recognizable work may be the poem \'93The Nymph\rquote s Reply to the Shepherd\'94
 which was a cynical response to this Marlowe poem beginning \'93Come live with me and be my love.\'94
\par \tab Answer: \'93The }{\ul\insrsid14830716\charrsid14830716 Passionate Shepherd to His Love}{\insrsid14830716 .\'94
\par }{\insrsid2634985 
\par }{\insrsid16142251 
\par }{\insrsid15497775 Bonus 4: Name the B Complex Vitamin from clues, FTPE.
\par }{\insrsid2757700 A. This vitamin found in yeast, nuts, whole grains and lean pork is important in carbohydrate metabolism.  Deficiency in it}{\insrsid15497775  leads to the disease beriberi.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid15497775\charrsid15497775 Thiamine}{\insrsid15497775  or B-}{\ul\insrsid15497775\charrsid15497775 1}{\insrsid15497775 .
\par B. This most complex of known vitamins is best }{\insrsid465886 found in animal tissues like}{\insrsid15497775 
 liver and kidneys and together with folic acid is involved in the synthesis of proteins.  An inadequate amount absorbed can lead to pernicious anemia.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid15497775\charrsid15497775 Colbalamin}{\insrsid15497775  or }{\ul\insrsid15497775\charrsid15497775 B}{\insrsid15497775 -}{\ul\insrsid15497775\charrsid15497775 12}{\insrsid15497775 .
\par C. This vitamin participates in the metabolism of carbs, fats}{\insrsid8985730  and amino acids}{\insrsid15497775 
 and works in the Krebs cycle.  Hair loss is often a result of deficiencies in it.  Although vital it is only needed in small amounts and is synthesized by intestinal bacteria.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid15497775\charrsid15497775 Biotin}{\insrsid15497775  or Vitamin }{\ul\insrsid15497775\charrsid15497775 H}{\insrsid15497775 .
\par }{\insrsid2634985 
\par }{\insrsid16142251 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2634985 {\insrsid2634985 Bonus 5:  }{\insrsid8783330 Answer the following about a certain figure from Greek myth }{\insrsid2634985 FTPE.
\par A.}{\insrsid16065887  }{\insrsid8783330 What founder of Corinth was condemned to forever roll a rock up a hill in Hades for ratting out one of \line Zeus\rquote s rapes?}{\insrsid2634985 
\par }{\insrsid8783330 \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid8783330\charrsid8783330 Sisyphus}{\insrsid8783330 
\par }{\insrsid2634985 B. Sisyphus twice fooled this god}{\insrsid16065887 , the personification of death}{\insrsid2634985 : first by imprisoning him and again by telling his wife to neglect certain customary sacrifices.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid2634985\charrsid6900856 Thanatos}{\insrsid2634985 .
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid14830716 {\insrsid2634985 C.}{\insrsid8783330  Sisyphus is the son of what god of the winds?}{\insrsid2634985 
\par }{\insrsid8783330 \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid8783330\charrsid8783330 Aeolus}{\insrsid8783330 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid16142251 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid864545 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2634985 {\insrsid2634985 Bonus 6: Identify the 19}{\super\insrsid2634985\charrsid16589150 th}{\insrsid2634985  century landscapes painters from clues FTPE.
\par A.}{\insrsid16065887  This Frenchman painted the Embarcation for Cythera.}{\insrsid2634985 
\par }{\insrsid16065887 \tab Answer:  Eugene }{\ul\insrsid16065887\charrsid16142251 Watteau}{\insrsid2634985 
\par B. }{\insrsid4225967 Okay, not really exactly a landscape painter, this Frenchie is known for landscapes that include haystacks and lily pads.}{\insrsid2634985 
\par }{\insrsid4225967 \tab Answer:  Claude }{\ul\insrsid4225967\charrsid8783330 Monet}{\insrsid4225967 
\par }{\insrsid2634985 C. He was the only painter to exhibit at all eight of the independent Impressionist exhibitions and was a major influence on Cezanne.  Paintings include }{\i\insrsid2634985\charrsid13107934 The Orchard}{\insrsid2634985 , }{
\i\insrsid2634985\charrsid13107934 Spring Sunshine and in a Field}{\insrsid2634985  and }{\i\insrsid2634985\charrsid13107934 The Garden of Les Mathurins at Pontoise}{\insrsid2634985 .
\par \tab Answer: Camille }{\ul\insrsid2634985\charrsid6367795 Pissarro}{\insrsid2634985 .
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid14830716 {\insrsid12479468 
\par Bonus}{\insrsid2634985  7}{\insrsid12479468 : }{\insrsid16065887 Stuff about quizbowl\rquote s favorite war, the Thirty Years\rquote  War, }{\insrsid12479468 FTPE.
\par }{\insrsid6967790 A. This 1620 b}{\insrsid12479468 attle, the first of the Thirty Years War saw Catholic Imperial forces under Tilly defeat Czech Protestant commanded by Christian of Anhalt signaling the end of Bohemian independence.
\par \tab Answer: Battle of }{\ul\insrsid12479468\charrsid12479468 White Mountain}{\insrsid12479468 .
\par }{\insrsid16065887 B.  Though he fell at the Battle of Lutzen, what Swedish monarch\rquote s forces went on to defeat those of Wallenstein at that engagement?
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid16065887\charrsid16065887 Gustavus Adolphus}{\insrsid16065887 
\par }{\insrsid12479468 C}{\insrsid16065887 .  The immediate cause of the war was this heaving of two Holy Roman Empire ministers into a dungheap in a Bohemian city.}{\insrsid6513192 
\par }{\insrsid16065887 \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid16065887\charrsid16065887 Defenestration of Prague}{\insrsid16065887 
\par }{\insrsid3307542 
\par Bonus}{\insrsid2634985  8}{\insrsid3307542 : Vonnegut works from clues FTPE.
\par A.}{\insrsid5596579  Billy Pilgrim is taken on a time traveling adventure by the Tralfamadorians, a group of aliens}{\insrsid3308311 ,}{\insrsid5596579  in this novel concerned with the question of free-will.}{\insrsid3307542 
\par }{\insrsid5596579 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid5596579\charrsid5596579 Slaughterhouse Five}{\insrsid5596579 .
\par B. The setting is \'93one million years ago, back in 1986 A.D.\'94 and the narrator is Leon Trout, the gh}{\insrsid3308311 ost of a ship-builder.  After an}{\insrsid5596579  apocalypse a group of Cruise passengers evol}{\insrsid3308311 
ve into less intelligent, flippered swimming creatures}{\insrsid5596579 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid5596579\charrsid5596579 Galapagos}{\insrsid5596579 .
\par C. This short story begins. \'93The Year was 2081, and everyone was finally equal.\'94 It ends when the Handicapper General kills the title character, a fourteen year old individualist who has escaped from prison and declared himself Emperor.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid5596579\charrsid5596579 Harrison Bergeron}{\insrsid5596579 .
\par }{\insrsid2634985 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4225967 {\insrsid9973110 Bonus: 9: }{\f37\insrsid4225967\charrsid7885811 Name these Supreme Court cases FTPE.
\par A.  In this 1803 case John Marshall established the concept of judicial review.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4225967 {\f37\insrsid4225967\charrsid7885811 A.  }{\f37\ul\insrsid4225967\charrsid7885811 Marbury}{\f37\insrsid4225967\charrsid7885811  v. Madison
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4225967 {\f37\insrsid4225967\charrsid7885811 
B.  The plaintiff in this 1918 decision was a socialist who had handed out leaflets urging men not to serve the army in WWI.  It set the free speech limit of }{\f37\insrsid4225967\charrsid7885811 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 65 \\f "WP TypographicSymbols"
 \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f36\fs20}}}{\f37\insrsid4225967\charrsid7885811 clear and present danger.}{\f37\insrsid4225967\charrsid7885811 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 64 \\f "WP TypographicSymbols" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f36\fs20}}}{\f37\insrsid4225967\charrsid7885811 

\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4225967 {\f37\insrsid4225967\charrsid7885811 A.  }{\f37\ul\insrsid4225967\charrsid7885811 Schenk}{\f37\insrsid4225967\charrsid7885811  v. U.S.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4225967 {\f37\insrsid4225967\charrsid7885811 C.  This case reaffirmed the right of the U.S. to relocate Japanese citizens during WWII.
\par }{\f37\insrsid4225967 \tab }{\f37\insrsid4225967\charrsid7885811 A.  }{\f37\ul\insrsid4225967\charrsid7885811 Korematsu}{\f37\insrsid4225967\charrsid7885811  v. U.S.}{\insrsid3761340 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid14830716 {\insrsid12587660 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2634985 {\insrsid2634985 Bonus 10: Identify these Caribbean islands from clues FTPE.
\par A. This easternmost of the Caribbean islands has its capital at Bridgetown and is governed by a Parliament dominated by its Labour Party which recognizes Queen Elizabeth II as head of state.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid2634985\charrsid15798794 Barbados}{\insrsid2634985 .
\par B. The birthplace of V.S. Naip}{\insrsid5255019 a}{\insrsid2634985 ul, this island off the NE coast of Venezuela was surrendered by the Spanish to the British in 1797 and since 1962 has been paired with a much smaller island to the Northeast.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid2634985\charrsid15798794 Trinidad}{\insrsid2634985 .
\par C. This island of the Southern Caribbean lies of the Northwest coast of Venezuela and has had autonomy in internal affairs since its separation for the Netherlands Antilles in 1986.  Its capital is Oranjestad.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid14830716 {\insrsid2634985 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid2634985\charrsid15798794 Aruba}{\insrsid2634985 .}{\insrsid15939695 
\par }{\insrsid4225967 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid3308311 Bonus}{\insrsid2634985  11}{\insrsid3308311 : }{\insrsid5255019  }{\insrsid10620600 Japanese history FTPE.}{\insrsid14769920 
\par }{\insrsid10620600 A.  Established in 1603, this feudal dictatorship was ruled by shoguns from the titular family.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid10620600\charrsid10620600 Tokugawa}{\insrsid10620600  Shogunate
\par B.  The Tokugawa Shogunate sometimes goes by this name, from the ancient name of Tokyo.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid10620600\charrsid10620600 Edo}{\insrsid10620600  Period
\par C.  The Tokugawa shogunate }{\insrsid4225967 was formed by this man.}{\insrsid10620600 
\par }{\insrsid4225967 \tab Answer:  Tokugawa }{\ul\insrsid4225967\charrsid4225967 Ieyasu}{\insrsid4225967 
\par }{\insrsid6298572 
\par }{\insrsid3343981 
\par }{\insrsid6298572 Bonus}{\insrsid2634985  12}{\insrsid5255019 :  Stuff about an American poet }{\insrsid6298572 FT}{\insrsid6846793 SNOP}{\insrsid6298572 .
\par }{\insrsid5255019 A. (10) This }{\insrsid4225967 early 20th-century }{\insrsid5255019 woman authored the collections A Few Figs from Thistles and The Harp-Weaver and Other Poems.
\par \tab Answer:  Edna St. Vincent }{\ul\insrsid5255019\charrsid5255019 Millay}{\insrsid5255019 
\par B}{\insrsid6846793  (10)}{\insrsid6298572 . Written when she was only nineteen}{\insrsid8915078 ,}{\insrsid6298572  this poem started Millay\rquote 
s literary career.  The speaker describes a transcendental communion with nature near the end of which she declares \'93God, I can push the grass apart/ And lay my finger on Thy heart.\'94
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid6298572\charrsid6846793 Renascence}{\insrsid6298572 .
\par }{\insrsid8594120 C}{\insrsid6846793  (5/5). }{\insrsid8594120  }{\insrsid6846793 Millay wrote \'93Justice Denied in Massachusetts\'94
 after witnessing and even being arrested during the murder trial of these two Italian anarchists who were eventually executed in 1927.}{\insrsid8594120 
\par }{\insrsid6846793 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid6846793\charrsid6846793 Sacco}{\insrsid6846793  and }{\ul\insrsid6846793\charrsid6846793 Vanzetti}{\insrsid6846793 .
\par }{\insrsid4994493 
\par }{\insrsid3343981 
\par }{\insrsid4994493 Bonus}{\insrsid2634985  13}{\insrsid4994493 : Related chemistry stuff FTPE.
\par A. This is a neutral molecule or ion having a lone electron pair that can be used to form a bond with a central metallic ion forming a complex ion.  Common ones are water molecule and acetate and nitrite anions.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid4994493\charrsid4994493 Ligand}{\insrsid4994493 .
\par B. This is a ligand which can bind to a metal ion with two or more pairs of electrons.  Its etymology is from the Greek for \'93claw.\'94
\par \tab Answer: Chelate or Chelating ligand.
\par C. One of the most common chelates is this compound which can form up to six bonds.  It is used as a \'93scavenger\'94 to remove heavy metals from the human body.  It is found in sodas, beer, salad dressing, and many cleaners.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid4994493\charrsid4994493 EDTA}{\insrsid4994493  or }{\ul\insrsid4994493\charrsid4994493 E}{\insrsid4994493\charrsid4994493 thylene}{\ul\insrsid4994493\charrsid4994493 d}{\insrsid4994493\charrsid4994493 iamine-}{
\ul\insrsid4994493\charrsid4994493 t}{\insrsid4994493\charrsid4994493 etra}{\ul\insrsid4994493\charrsid4994493 a}{\insrsid4994493\charrsid4994493 cetate}{\insrsid4994493 .
\par }{\insrsid2634985 
\par }{\insrsid3343981 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2634985 {\insrsid2634985 Bonus 14: Identify these philosophical or scientific constructs from clues FTPE.
\par A.}{\insrsid16142251  This imaginary creature was theorized by its namesake Scottish scientist to contradict the Second Law of Thermodynamics; it can open or close tiny trap doors in a hypothetical gas-filled box}{\insrsid2634985 .
\par }{\insrsid16142251 \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid16142251\charrsid16142251 Maxwell\rquote s Demon}{\insrsid16142251 
\par }{\insrsid2634985 B. Employed to show the problem with overemphasizing reason and falsely attributed to a 14}{\super\insrsid2634985\charrsid3362285 th}{\insrsid2634985 
 century philosopher, this animal starves to death between two equidistant piles of hay.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid2634985\charrsid3362285 Buridan\rquote s Ass}{\insrsid2634985 .
\par C. This construct is supposed to illustrate the principle of supe
rposition in quantum physics.  The titular animal is placed in a lead box with a vial of cyanide.  Its creator argued that the cat is both dead and alive until we check to see which of the states it is in.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid2634985\charrsid3362285 Schrodinger\rquote s Cat}{\insrsid2634985 .
\par 
\par }{\insrsid3343981 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid4225967 
\par }{\insrsid3343981 
\par }{\insrsid14355757 Bonus 15: Identify the Behaviorist psychologists from clues FTPE.
\par A. The director of the psychology lab at Johns Hopkins this man founded Behaviorism believing that theories of introspection and the unconscious mind were unscientific.  His works include 1928\rquote s Psychological Care of Infant and Child.
\par \tab Answer: John B. }{\ul\insrsid14355757\charrsid8004 Watson}{\insrsid14355757 .
\par B. }{\insrsid4225967 This guy is probably the best known Behaviorist and wrote }{\i\insrsid4225967\charrsid4225967 Walden Two}{\insrsid4225967 .}{\insrsid8004 
\par }{\insrsid4225967 \tab Answer:  B. F. }{\ul\insrsid4225967\charrsid4225967 Skinner}{\insrsid4225967 
\par }{\insrsid8004 C. The author of 1933\rquote s Hypnosis and Suggestibility: an experimental approach, this American Psycholog
ist tried to mathematize psychology coming up with his Hypothetic-Deductive approach whereby postulates would be proposed and then tested.
\par \tab Answer: Clark Leonard }{\ul\insrsid8004\charrsid8004 Hull}{\insrsid8004 .}{\insrsid8915078 
\par }{\insrsid3343981 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8607814 {\insrsid8805286 Bonus 16}{\insrsid8607814  Name these recent films about writers FTPE.
\par A. The utterly lame Gwyneth Paltrow stars in this biopic about the life of the author of \'93The Bell Jar\'94 and her doomed love affair with the poet Ted Hughes.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid8607814\charrsid16662670 Sylvia}{\insrsid8607814 
\par B. The sometimes attractive Hayden Christensen portrays the rise of title character Stephen Glass, a staff writer for the New Republic in the mid-90\rquote s until it was found he partially or wholly fabricated 27 of his 41 published stories.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid8607814\charrsid16662670 Shattered Glass}{\ul\insrsid8607814 
\par }{\insrsid8607814 C. Cate Blanchett portrays the titular journalist, a writer for Dublin\rquote s Sunday Independent, who exposed some of Dublin\rquote s powerful drug lords but was gunned down by men hired by them in 1996.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid8607814\charrsid16662670 Veronica Guerin}{\insrsid8607814\charrsid16662670 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2634985 {\insrsid3343981 
\par }{\insrsid13051645 Bonus 1}{\insrsid8849225 7}{\insrsid4225967 :  30-20-10 Identify the composer from works.}{\insrsid14355757 
\par }{\insrsid4225967 A. (30 pts.) Aus Italien (1886) and Alpine Symphony (1915)
\par B. (20 pts.) Domestic Symphony (1903) and Elektra (1909)
\par C. (10 pts.) Salome and Also Spracht Zarathustra
\par \tab Answer:  Richard }{\ul\insrsid4225967\charrsid4225967 Strauss}{\insrsid4225967 
\par }{\insrsid3343981 
\par }{\insrsid8414532 Bonus 18: }{\insrsid8915078 I}{\insrsid16069725 dentify the following concerning a concept in fluid dynamics.
\par A. }{\insrsid11822730 It is usually defined as resistance of a fluid to flow although it can also be thought of as a sort of internal friction.}{\insrsid16069725 
\par }{\insrsid11822730 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid11822730\charrsid11822730 Viscosity}{\insrsid11822730 .
\par B. The CGS unit for dynamic viscosity is named for this French physician who has a law named for him showing that the rate of a fluid\rquote s flow through a pipe is pr
oportional to the pressure applied and the diameter of the pipe raised to the fourth power.
\par \tab Answer: Jean Louis }{\ul\insrsid11822730\charrsid11822730 Poiseuille}{\insrsid11822730  (prompt on Poise).
\par C. This is the unitless number which relates the radius of a pipe, the density of the fluid, and the speed of the fluid w}{\insrsid8607814 ith its dynamic viscosity.   A h}{\insrsid11822730 
igh number means viscosity is negligible while a low one means it is dominant.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid11822730\charrsid11822730 Reynolds}{\insrsid11822730 \rquote  Number.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid14830716 {\insrsid3343981 
\par }{\insrsid2634985 Bonus 19:}{\insrsid7480723  Identify the secretaries of state from clues FTPE.
\par A}{\insrsid4225967 . Serving under Eisenhower, this brother of a CIA Director promoted the concept of Brinkmanship and has an airport in our capital named for him.}{\insrsid7480723 
\par }{\insrsid4225967 \tab Answer:  John Foster }{\ul\insrsid4225967\charrsid4225967 Dulles}{\insrsid4225967 
\par }{\insrsid7480723 B. Due to support in the 1912 Democratic convention Wilson made this evangelical politician his secretary of state.  }{\insrsid8783330 He\rquote s probably better known for his \'93Cross of Gold\'94 speech, though.}{\insrsid7480723 

\par \tab Answer: William Jennings }{\ul\insrsid7480723\charrsid3898083 Bryan}{\insrsid7480723 .
\par C. As secretary of state to JFK and LBJ he defended the Vietnam War and armed opposition to Communism but also helped organize the 1963 Nuclear Test Ban Treaty.
\par \tab Answer: Dean }{\ul\insrsid7480723\charrsid3898083 Rusk}{\insrsid7480723 .
\par }{\insrsid2634985 
\par }{\insrsid8783330 
\par }{\insrsid2634985 Bonus 20:}{\insrsid14355757  Latin American writers from clues FTPE.
\par A. This Argentine shows his fascination with cinema in works like }{\i\insrsid14355757\charrsid14355757 Betrayed by Rita Hayworth}{\insrsid14355757  and }{\i\insrsid14355757\charrsid14355757 The Kiss of the Spider Woman}{\insrsid14355757 .
\par \tab Answer: Manuel }{\ul\insrsid14355757\charrsid14355757 Puig}{\insrsid14355757 .
\par B. This Chilean Communist and Winner of the 1971 Nobel is probably best known for his poetry collection }{\i\insrsid14355757\charrsid14355757 Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair}{\insrsid14355757 .
\par \tab Answer: Pablo }{\ul\insrsid14355757\charrsid14355757 Neruda}{\insrsid14355757 .
\par C. This Cuban musicologist and author coined the term \'93magical realism\'94 in the preface to }{\i\insrsid14355757\charrsid14355757 The Kingdom of the World}{\insrsid14355757 .  His other novels include }{\i\insrsid14355757\charrsid14355757 
Explosion in a Cathedral}{\insrsid14355757  and }{\i\insrsid14355757\charrsid14355757 The Lost Steps}{\insrsid14355757 .
\par \tab Answer: Alejo }{\ul\insrsid14355757\charrsid14355757 Carpentier}{\insrsid14355757 .
\par }{\insrsid15808056 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6047627 {\insrsid6047627 Bonus 21:  Theories concerning the causes of Ice Ages from clues, FTPE.
\par A. The most accepted theory climate change today may be this one, named for a Serbian astronomer, which attributes climate changes to \'93wobbles\'94 in the earth\rquote s orbit around the sun.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid6047627\charrsid3761340 Melankovitch}{\insrsid6047627  Cycle.
\par B. Another possible explanation for Ice Ages is large atmospheric reduction of this gas which is, discounting water vapor, the most abundant greenhouse gas in earth\rquote s atmosphere.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid6047627\charrsid3761340 Carbon dioxide}{\insrsid6047627  or }{\ul\insrsid6047627\charrsid3761340 CO2}{\insrsid6047627 .
\par C. Although probably not useful in explaining shorter, more recent Ice Ages this tectonic cycle of ocean basin growth and destruction may explain climactic changes on the scale of tens of millions of years.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid6047627\charrsid3761340 Wilson}{\insrsid6047627  Cycle.}{\insrsid6367795 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid14830716 {\insrsid3362285 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid1071798 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid3308311 
\par }{\insrsid3898083 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid6846793 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid5596579 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid6513192 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2374766 {\insrsid14830716 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid2374766 
\par }{\insrsid13255200 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }}