{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f35\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f39\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040502050405020303}Georgia;}{\f40\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f41\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f43\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f44\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f45\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f46\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f47\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f48\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f390\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f391\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}{\f393\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}
{\f394\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f395\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}{\f396\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}{\f397\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}{\f398\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Tahoma (Vietnamese);}
{\f399\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Tahoma (Thai);}{\f430\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Georgia CE;}{\f431\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Georgia Cyr;}{\f433\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Georgia Greek;}{\f434\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Georgia Tur;}
{\f437\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Georgia Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\*\cs15 \additive \b\f39\fs21\cf0 \sbasedon10 \styrsid6251473 sg_chap_bodybold1;}{
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 \styrsid4343517 header;}{\*\cs17 \additive \sbasedon10 \styrsid4343517 page number;}
{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f35\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 \ssemihidden \styrsid729407 Balloon Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid417279\rsid482556\rsid674828\rsid729407
\rsid860446\rsid1116844\rsid1123814\rsid1181669\rsid1190428\rsid1267527\rsid1575877\rsid1837162\rsid2040912\rsid2249596\rsid2372516\rsid2829362\rsid3096187\rsid3152857\rsid3172610\rsid3232263\rsid3353567\rsid3947831\rsid4343517\rsid4411846\rsid4529060
\rsid4665229\rsid4983650\rsid5335899\rsid5445608\rsid5988551\rsid6046801\rsid6048859\rsid6243231\rsid6251473\rsid7148537\rsid7306372\rsid7483583\rsid7607341\rsid8415478\rsid8416622\rsid8528882\rsid8589608\rsid8594696\rsid8725721\rsid8811521\rsid8945401
\rsid8996889\rsid9009880\rsid9512704\rsid9899307\rsid9919387\rsid10308758\rsid10445838\rsid10948623\rsid11300806\rsid11493678\rsid11880534\rsid12191888\rsid12394869\rsid12457200\rsid12519557\rsid12530017\rsid12779981\rsid12854653\rsid12919381\rsid13907539
\rsid14615080\rsid14827242\rsid14841331\rsid15209388\rsid15603992\rsid15939986\rsid16207796\rsid16329720\rsid16393249\rsid16530242\rsid16543730\rsid16654022\rsid16665511}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.3416;}{\info{\title ISU Fall 2003 Round 4}
{\author  }{\operator cborglum}{\creatim\yr2003\mo10\dy13\hr9\min19}{\revtim\yr2003\mo11\dy7\hr9\min21}{\printim\yr2003\mo11\dy7\hr9\min21}{\version5}{\edmins65}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords3529}{\nofchars20121}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws23603}{\vern16453}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot16543730 \fet0\sectd 
\pgnrestart\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\header \pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\pvpara\phmrg\posxr\posy0\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4343517 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs17\insrsid4343517 PAGE  }}{\fldrslt {\cs17\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid8415478 8}}}{\cs17\insrsid4343517 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri360\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin360\lin0\itap0\pararsid4343517 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\kerning0\insrsid4343517 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\kerning0\insrsid4343517 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid1116844 Valencia Fall Invitational 2003}{\insrsid2249596 
\par }{\insrsid1116844 Round 10\emdash Questions by Matt C. of Iowa St. (edited for gentleness by CB)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid2249596 
\par }{\insrsid1123814 1)}{\insrsid2249596  He spent WWII in India after his father had been killed in the invasion of Singapore, and later moved to England when his mother married a British}{\insrsid8996889  army officer.  Some of his works}{\insrsid2249596 
 include the television drama }{\i\insrsid2249596 Squaring the Circle}{\insrsid2249596 , about Eastern Europe}{\insrsid1116844  behind}{\insrsid2249596  the Iron Curtain, and more recently, }{\i\insrsid2249596 The Invention of Love}{\insrsid2249596 
, about A.E. Housman and his desire for a male student.  He is also the author of several screenplays, getting an Oscar nomination, along with Terry Gilliam, for }{\i\insrsid2249596 Brazil}{\insrsid2249596 , and winning for }{\i\insrsid2249596 Shakespea
re in Love}{\insrsid2249596 .  FTP name this dramat}{\insrsid16393249 ist who earlier spoofed \'93The Bard\'94 }{\insrsid2249596 in the absurdist play }{\i\insrsid2249596 Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead}{\insrsid2249596 .
\par \tab Answer: Tom }{\ul\insrsid2249596 Stoppard}{\insrsid2249596 .
\par 
\par }{\insrsid11880534 
\par }{\insrsid1123814 2)}{\insrsid2249596   During his retirement at a monastery in Avila he was so afraid of being poisoned that he supposedly kept a unicorn\rquote s horn handy as an antidote.  }{\insrsid11880534 S}{\insrsid2249596 
oon after his promotion to prior of Santa Cruz monastery he became confessor to Queen Isabella of Castille.  He later staged the sham \'93LaGuardia\'94
 trial of eight converted Jews who were accused of crucifying a Christian child and burned at the stake, which encouraged the expulsion of the Jews from Spain.  FTP name this First Grand Inquisitor.
\par \tab Answer: Tomas de }{\ul\insrsid2249596 Torquemada}{\insrsid2249596 .
\par 
\par }{\insrsid11880534 
\par }{\insrsid1123814 3)}{\insrsid2249596  Current artists active in this discipline include Alan Reade, Sharon Alward, Rachel Rosenthal and the group Peoplehater.  One example of it is Yves Klein\rquote s }{\i\insrsid2249596 
Anthropometries of the Blue Period}{\insrsid2249596  in which three naked women dou}{\insrsid1116844 sed in paint smeared paint on }{\insrsid2249596 canvases}{\insrsid1116844  with their bodies. }{\insrsid11880534   Josef Beuys\rquote  wonderful piece 
\'93How to Talk to a Dead Hare,\'94 in which he paced about murmuring in German to a dead rabbit is also an example. }{\insrsid1116844  FTP}{\insrsid2249596  identify this }{\insrsid11880534 art form }{\insrsid2249596 usually done in front of 
small audiences, b}{\insrsid11880534 est exemplified by the group Flu}{\insrsid2249596 xus and the \'93Happenings\'94 of the 1960\rquote s.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid2249596 Performance Art}{\insrsid2249596 . (prompt on \'93Happening\'94 before it is mentioned).
\par }{\insrsid1123814 
\par }{\insrsid11880534 
\par }{\insrsid7607341 4) It has virtually no fossil record although eggs from members of this phylum have often been found in Egyptian mummies and fossilized sloth dung.   They are both triploblastic and bilaterally symmetrical}{\insrsid1116844 ,}{
\insrsid7607341  the first animals to be so.  }{\insrsid1116844 Its subdivisions include Planarians, and all members respire by diffusion. }{\insrsid7607341 The most famous members of the cl}{\insrsid6048859 assification are }{\insrsid7607341 
flukes and tapeworms.  FTP identify this phylum commonly known as flatworms.}{\insrsid1123814 
\par }{\insrsid7607341 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid7607341\charrsid7607341 Platyhelminthes}{\insrsid7607341  (prompt on flatworm).
\par }{\insrsid2249596 
\par }{\insrsid11880534 
\par }{\insrsid1123814 5)}{\insrsid2249596  During the Spanish Civil War he a}{\insrsid1116844 ttended an anti-fascist writers\rquote }{\insrsid2249596 
 convention in Valencia, while his stays in France in the 40s and India in the 60s led him to experimentation with surrealist and Hindu styles. He wrote essays about Duchamp and Sor Juana and his poetry includes the long work }{\i\insrsid2249596 Sun Stone
}{\insrsid2249596  addressed to the planet Venus and the collection }{\i\insrsid2249596 Eagle or Sun?}{\insrsid2249596  about the Aztecs.  Arguing that poetry is \'93the secret r}{\insrsid1116844 eligion of the modern age,\'94 FTP}{\insrsid2249596 
 name this Mexican writer, author of }{\i\insrsid2249596 The Labyrinth of Solitude}{\insrsid2249596  and winner of 1990 Nobel Prize.
\par \tab Answer: Octavio }{\ul\insrsid2249596 Paz}{\insrsid2249596 .
\par 
\par }{\insrsid11880534 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2372516 {\insrsid2372516 6) His epithets included \'93Poised,\'94 \'93Sober,\'94 and \'93Clear-Headed}{\insrsid1116844 ,}{\insrsid2372516 \'94
 which is similar to the way he is depicted as a man \'93centered in the sphere of common duties,\'94 who, by \'93slow prudence\'94 will make }{\insrsid1116844 \'93}{\insrsid2372516 mild/ A rugged people,\'94 by }{\insrsid10445838 a }{\insrsid2372516 
Victorian poet.  He aids the seer Theoclymenus, befriends Pisastratus, the son of Nestor, and after a failed ambush attempt is called \'93a }{\insrsid1116844 clever little schemer\'94 by Antin}{\insrsid2372516 
ous.  He received a mixing bowl from Menelaus and is immediately recognized by Helen during a trip in which he is guided by Athena, disguised as Mentor.  FTP name this hero whose name means \'93Far Battle,\'94 the son of Odysseus.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid2372516 Telemachus}{\insrsid2372516 .
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid2249596 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1123814 {\insrsid4343517 
\par }{\insrsid1123814 7}{\insrsid11880534 )}{\insrsid1123814   Written in vernacular Italian instead of Latin, it is divided into four day
s.  The last contains a theory of tidal motion and the third contains an argument about whether or not the 1572 supernova was sub-lunar.  On the first day sunspots are mentioned and on the second day a new physics, involving a proto concept of inertia, is
 put forth by Salviati to persuade his interlocutors, Sagredo and Simplicio, about the merits of the Copernican theory over Ptolemaic theory.  FTP identify this 1632 work of Galileo.
\par \tab Answer: A }{\ul\insrsid1123814 Dialogue on the Two Principle World Systems}{\insrsid1123814  or A }{\ul\insrsid1123814 Dialogue Concerning the Two    }{\insrsid1123814 \tab }{\ul\insrsid1123814 Principle World Systems}{\insrsid1123814 . (or }{
\insrsid1116844 \'93}{\insrsid1123814 Chief}{\insrsid1116844 \'94}{\insrsid1123814  for Principle).
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid1123814 
\par }{\insrsid11880534 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13907539 {\insrsid1123814 8)}{\insrsid2249596  }{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105\langfe1033\langnp4105\insrsid13907539\charrsid13907539  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}{
\cf1\insrsid13907539\charrsid13907539 With his wife, this man had t}{\cf1\insrsid13907539 wo daughters, both given the feminine form of his patronym}{\cf1\insrsid13907539\charrsid13907539 
; the older one was grandmother to Nero, while the younger, married to D
rusus, was mother to Claudius.  Born in Egypt, he served under Julius Caesar in Gaul and was serving as consul when Caesar was murdered.  He then allied himself with Octavian and cemented that relationship by marrying Octavian\rquote 
s sister.  The two were later joined by Lepidus in the Second Triumvirate.  FTP name this Roman perhaps best known for his relationship with Cleopatra VII.
\par \tab A.  }{\ul\cf1\insrsid13907539\charrsid13907539 Marc Antony}{\cf1\insrsid13907539\charrsid13907539  (acc. Marcus Antonius)}{\cf1\insrsid2249596\charrsid11880534 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid2249596 
\par }{\insrsid11880534 
\par }{\insrsid1123814 9)}{\insrsid2249596  Left unfinished at the author\rquote s death, it ends with the title hero\rquote s confrontation wi
th a ghost while staying with Henry and Adeline Amundeville.  Earlier the hero had befriended Catherine the Great, been sold into slavery by Lambo, a Greek pirate, and had been bought by Gulbeyaz, the Turkish Sultan\rquote 
s wife.  However, the most rousing part of this work may be the \'93Dedication\'94 which accuses Coleridge of being an obscure metaphysician and insults the sexual prowess of poet laureate Bob Southey.  FTP name this long poem by Byron}{\insrsid1116844 
 named for the titular legendary lover}{\insrsid2249596 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid2249596 Don Juan}{\insrsid2249596 * (*pronounced Jo}{\insrsid1116844 o-on as it rhymes with \'93new one}{\insrsid2249596 \'94}{\insrsid1116844 \emdash but accept \'93wan\'94}{\insrsid2249596 )
\par }{\insrsid1123814 
\par }{\insrsid11880534 
\par }{\insrsid15209388 10) First given its name in an 1822 paper by William Conybeare and William Phillips}{\insrsid5335899 ,}{\insrsid15209388  this period saw the }{\insrsid674828 replacement of lobe-}{\insrsid15209388 
fin fish with sharks as well as the development of the amniote egg}{\insrsid1116844 ,}{\insrsid15209388  which led to the appearance of reptiles.  The southern Appalachians were formed with the collision of Euramerica and Gondwanaland}{\insrsid1116844 ,}{
\insrsid15209388  and the lands were overgrown wi}{\insrsid674828 th trees and swamps}{\insrsid1116844 ,}{\insrsid674828  producing}{\insrsid15209388  the largest abundance of oxygen ever in the }{\insrsid674828 atmosphere.  In North America it is }{
\insrsid15209388 divided into the Pennsylvani}{\insrsid674828 an and Mississippian periods.  FTP identify this geologic Period occurring 260-290 million years ago between the Devonian and Permian and}{\insrsid15209388  nam}{\insrsid674828 
ed for its rich deposits of coal}{\insrsid15209388 .}{\insrsid1123814 
\par }{\insrsid15209388 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid15209388\charrsid15209388 Carboniferous}{\insrsid15209388  Period.
\par }{\insrsid1123814 
\par }{\insrsid11880534 
\par }{\insrsid12854653 11) A native of Dubuque, Iowa, he was the subject of the Bob Woodward biography }{\i\insrsid12854653\charrsid12854653 Frazzled}{\insrsid12854653 
.  He had a brief stay in the Betty Ford clinic after joining the Rajnesshee cult and used a relationship with Jeane Kirkpatatrick to sell secrets to Russia.  His occupati
ons included televangelist, lead-singer for the band Deathtongue and two-time Presidential candidate for the Meadow Party.  He also dated the Clinton\rquote s cat Socks and had Donald Trump\rquote 
s brain transplanted into his body.  FTP identify this character whose most prevalent words are \'93Oop-Ack}{\insrsid6048859 ,}{\insrsid12854653 \'94 the best-friend of Opus and the unkempt feline star of Berke Breathed\rquote s }{
\i\insrsid12854653\charrsid12854653 Outland}{\insrsid12854653  and }{\i\insrsid12854653\charrsid12854653 Bloom County}{\insrsid12854653 .}{\insrsid1123814 
\par }{\insrsid12854653 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid12854653\charrsid12854653 Bill}{\insrsid12854653  the Cat or }{\ul\insrsid12854653\charrsid12854653 Bill}{\insrsid12854653  D. Cat.
\par }{\insrsid2249596 
\par }{\insrsid11880534 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8589608 {\insrsid1123814 12)}{\insrsid8589608  In Chapter 24 of Smollet\rquote s }{\i\insrsid8589608 Roderick Random}{\insrsid8589608  Mr. Thomson saves the title character 
from this practice while James Fenimore Cooper rails against it in }{\i\insrsid8589608 Afloat and Ashore}{\insrsid8589608 
.  Although not officially abolished it has not been practiced much since it reached its height during the Napoleonic Wars. The Nicholson Non-Importation Act and the Embarg
o Act of 1807 were U.S. retaliations against its use on American citizens the most famous incident of which occurred after the }{\i\insrsid8589608\charrsid4665229 Leopard}{\insrsid8589608  fired on the }{\i\insrsid8589608\charrsid1837162 Chesapeake}{
\insrsid8589608 .  FTP identify this action, one of the causes of the War of 1812, the forcible re}{\insrsid1116844 cruitment a person into naval}{\insrsid8589608  service.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid8589608 Impressment}{\insrsid8589608  (accept Press Gangs}{\insrsid4983650  or Pressment}{\insrsid8589608 ).
\par }{\insrsid1123814 
\par }{\insrsid11880534 
\par }{\insrsid1181669 13}{\insrsid2829362 )  }{\insrsid8996889 James Butcher recently led }{\insrsid2829362 a research team which updated this test for }{\insrsid8996889 
by taking out specific references to Christianity and adding three new validity scales.  The first edition was developed in the late 193}{\insrsid9512704 0s by Hathaway and McKinley and }{\insrsid8996889 
consisted of six hundred true-false questions.  It had three validity scales and ten clinical scales}{\insrsid2829362 ,}{\insrsid8996889 
 which included Hypochondriasis and Schizoprenia.  FTP identify this most frequently used test of adult psychotherapy named for the unive}{\insrsid2829362 rsity where it was developed, home to sports teams called the Golden Gophers.}{\insrsid1123814 

\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid8996889 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid8996889\charrsid8996889 MMPI}{\insrsid8996889  or }{\ul\insrsid8996889\charrsid8996889 M}{\insrsid8996889 innesota }{
\ul\insrsid8996889\charrsid8996889 M}{\insrsid8996889 ultiphasic }{\ul\insrsid8996889\charrsid8996889 P}{\insrsid8996889 ersonality }{\ul\insrsid8996889\charrsid8996889 I}{\insrsid8996889 nventory (accept MMPI-2).}{\insrsid8589608 
\par }{\insrsid13907539 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16530242 {\insrsid1123814 14)}{\insrsid16530242  To the south west of this city lies a 
Sarcee Indian Reserve and Nose Hill Park takes up much of its Northern Section.  Gilmore Reservoir is located in the south and the Elbow and Bow rivers converge near its center.  Founded in 1875 and originally named Fort Brisbois, it nearly doubled in siz
e during the late 1970s as a result of an oil boom.   It is home to the world-fa}{\insrsid1116844 mous rodeo event \endash The Stampede--}{\insrsid16530242 
and it played host to the 1988 Winter Olympics.  FTP identify this largest city in Alberta, located 300 kilometers south of Edmonton.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid16530242\charrsid417279 Calgary}{\insrsid16530242 .
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8589608 {\insrsid13907539 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13907539 {\insrsid1123814 15)}{\insrsid10308758 
  A graduate of Princeton, he is one of the few members of the Bush cabinet with real military experience, having been a Navy pilot from 1954-57.  He served as a congressman from Illinois from 1962-1969 before joining Nixon\rquote s cabinet as Assista
nt to the President}{\insrsid13907539 ; ironically, on his tapes Nixon called this man an \'93annoying peacenik\'94 for his attitude toward the Vietnam War}{\insrsid10308758 .  }{\insrsid13907539 
In October this baseball fan chided reporters for wanting to discuss military casualties in Iraq rather than \'93what\rquote s really important\'94\emdash the Cubs\rquote  playoff run. FTP name this current Secretary of Defense.
\par \tab Answer:  Donald }{\ul\insrsid13907539\charrsid13907539 Rumsfeld}{\insrsid13907539 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8589608 {\insrsid13907539 
\par }{\insrsid4983650 16) }{\insrsid2829362 B}{\insrsid4983650 ecause its production rate has been measured in proton-proton collisions Olivier Drapier believes that a suppression in its production could indicate the presence of Quark-Gluon Plasm}{
\insrsid15603992 a.  It was detected a}{\insrsid16207796 t Brookhaven}{\insrsid15603992  by Samuel Ting }{\insrsid4983650 when, after bombardment of a stationary target, a peak in electron and positron production was detected at an energy of 3.1 b
illion electron volts.}{\insrsid15603992   On the same day in 1974, however, another group led by Burton Richter detected it and gave it a different name leading to its double identification. }{\insrsid4983650 
FTP identify this meson composed of a charm quark and charm antiquark.}{\insrsid1123814 
\par }{\insrsid4983650 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid4983650\charrsid4983650 J/psi}{\insrsid4983650  particle or }{\ul\insrsid4983650\charrsid4983650 J}{\insrsid4983650  particle or }{\ul\insrsid4983650\charrsid4983650 psi}{\insrsid4983650  particle.
\par }{\insrsid12919381 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10308758 {\insrsid1123814 17}{\insrsid10308758 ) }{\insrsid10308758\charrsid10308758 
Pencil and paper may be needed!  For ten tasty math points, what is the value of the inverse sine of the sine of the quantity two pi over three.
\par \tab A}{\insrsid10308758 nswer:}{\insrsid10308758\charrsid10308758   }{\ul\insrsid10308758\charrsid10308758 Pi over three}{\insrsid14827242\charrsid10308758 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8589608 {\insrsid13907539 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1123814 {\insrsid1123814 18) Five out of this artist\rquote 
s eight sons became painters and his brother, Dirk, was a skilled painter of interior scenes.  He was among the first to use alla prima, the technique of painting directly on a canvas.  Spending most of his later years in financial troubles his compositio
ns became more dour as evidenced by }{\i\insrsid1123814 The Women Regents of the Old Men\rquote s Home at Haarlem}{\insrsid1123814 
.  He was a master of group portraiture and with instinctive and rapid brushstrokes was adept at capturing momentary facial expressions.  FTP name this Dutch portraitist of }{\i\insrsid1123814 The Archers of Saint Hadrian}{\insrsid1123814  and }{
\i\insrsid1123814 The Laughing Cavalier}{\insrsid1123814 .
\par \tab Answer: Franz }{\ul\insrsid1123814 Hals}{\insrsid1123814 .}{\insrsid4343517 
\par }{\insrsid13907539 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13907539 {\insrsid1123814 19}{\insrsid12530017 ) }{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105\langfe1033\langnp4105\insrsid13907539\charrsid13907539  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}{
\cf1\insrsid13907539\charrsid13907539 His }{\i\cf1\insrsid13907539\charrsid13907539 Heroides}{\cf1\insrsid13907539\charrsid13907539 
 are a series of fictional love letters in verse written between famous mythological characters, like Paris and Helen.  After being exile
d by Augustus to Tomi on the Black Sea, he wrote many poetic supplications for return, which were collected in the Epistulae ex Ponto.  Author also of }{\i\cf1\insrsid13907539\charrsid13907539 Ars Amatoria}{\cf1\insrsid13907539\charrsid13907539 , or the }
{\i\cf1\insrsid13907539\charrsid13907539 Art of Love}{\cf1\insrsid13907539\charrsid13907539 , FTP who is this Roman poet best known for his }{\i\cf1\insrsid13907539\charrsid13907539 Metamorphoses}{\cf1\insrsid13907539\charrsid13907539 ?
\par \tab A.  }{\ul\cf1\insrsid13907539\charrsid13907539 Ovid}{\cf1\insrsid13907539\charrsid13907539  (Publius Ovidius Naso)}{\cf1\insrsid1123814 
\par }{\insrsid11880534\charrsid13907539 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1123814 {\insrsid8594696 20) }{\insrsid11880534 This scientist, born in 1859,}{\insrsid4411846  pioneered the idea of activation energy}{\insrsid11880534 ,}{\insrsid4411846 
 and his namesake law is essential in the field of chemical kinetics.  He propelled the introduction of an empirical factor to Van\rquote t Hoff\rquote s law with his dissociation theory which argued that ions are the means of electolysis.  }{
\insrsid1575877 However, h}{\insrsid4411846 e may be be}{\insrsid1575877 st known for his concept of acids as hydrogen ion formers and bases as hydroxide ion formers}{\insrsid4411846 .  FTP i}{\insrsid1575877 dentify this Swedish chemist}{\insrsid4411846 
.}{\insrsid1123814 
\par }{\insrsid4411846 \tab Answer: Svante August }{\ul\insrsid4411846\charrsid4411846 Arrhenius}{\insrsid4411846 .}{\insrsid8528882  }{\insrsid4411846 
\par }{\insrsid1123814 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid2249596 
\par }{\insrsid16393249 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid13907539 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid16393249 
\par }{\insrsid2829362 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13907539 {\insrsid13907539 Valencia Fall Invitational\emdash Round 10 boni}{\insrsid16393249 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid16393249 
\par Bonus}{\insrsid1267527  }{\insrsid16393249 1: }{\insrsid2040912  Identify the countries of which the following people are leaders 5-5-10-10}{\insrsid1267527 
\par }{\insrsid2040912 A. (5 pts.)  Gerhard Schroeder\tab \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid2040912\charrsid2040912 Germany}{\insrsid2040912 
\par B. (5 pts.)  Vincente Fox\tab \tab \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid2040912\charrsid2040912 Mexico}{\insrsid2040912 
\par C. (10 pts.) Luiz Lula da Silvio\tab \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid2040912\charrsid2040912 Brazil}{\insrsid2040912 
\par D. (10 pts.) Anders Fogh Rasmussen\tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid2040912\charrsid2040912 Denmark}{\insrsid2040912  (uber alles!)
\par }{\insrsid1267527 
\par Bonus 2: Identify the films featuring that great thespian Clea Duvall.
\par A. In this cheesy 1999 film Clea is one of the lesbians at Catherine Moriarty\rquote s True Directions camp who falls in love with Natasha Lyonne.
\par \tab Answer}{\insrsid1267527\charrsid1267527 : }{\ul\insrsid1267527\charrsid1267527 But I\rquote m A Cheerleader}{\insrsid1267527 .
\par B. Clea portrays Stokely Mitchell the sci-fi geek who reveals that the movie is a rip-off of }{\i\insrsid1267527\charrsid1267527 Invasion of the Bodysnatchers}{\insrsid1267527  in this Robert Rodriguez film co-starri
ng Famke Jannsen, Elijah Wood, and Josh Hartnett.
\par \tab Answer: The }{\ul\insrsid1267527\charrsid1267527 Faculty}{\insrsid1267527 .
\par C. In this 2001 horror flick Clea is Bashira Kincaid one of the cops who has to fight off possessed minors and bring outlaw Ice Cube to justice. The upside is that Natasha Henstridge kicks some ass and Pam Grier gets decapitated.
\par \tab Answer: John Carpenter\rquote s }{\ul\insrsid1267527\charrsid1267527 Ghosts of Mars}{\insrsid1267527 .
\par 
\par Bonus 3: Keats works from clues FTPE.
\par A. }{\insrsid2829362 Beginning \'93My heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains my sense,\'94 this poem addresses the titular bird.}{\insrsid1267527 
\par }{\insrsid2829362 \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid2829362\charrsid2829362 Ode to a Nightingale}{\insrsid2829362 
\par }{\insrsid1267527 B. This poem }{\insrsid6243231 is perhaps the best of the femme fatale genre.  A \'93wretched }{\insrsid2829362 knight/}{\insrsid6243231 Alone and pale}{\insrsid2829362 ly}{\insrsid6243231  loitering\'94
 relates how he comes to be sitting on a \'93cold hill side\'94 after the beautiful}{\insrsid2829362  but merciless}{\insrsid6243231  title character has abandoned him.}{\insrsid1267527 
\par }{\insrsid6243231 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid6243231\charrsid6243231 La Belle Dame Sans Merci}{\insrsid6243231 .
\par C.}{\insrsid2829362  Keats wonders aloud where are the \'93songs of spring\'94 in this poem addressing the title season, a time of harvest.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid2829362\charrsid2829362 To Autumn}{\insrsid6243231 .
\par 
\par }{\insrsid12191888 Bonus 4: Identify the group of stars on the H-R diagram from descriptions FTPE.
\par A. The region containing 85% of all stars goes diagonally across the chart from hot and luminous to cool and dim.  Stars in this evolutionary stage are consuming hydrogen in their core.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid12191888\charrsid12191888 Main Sequence}{\insrsid12191888 .
\par B. This group is located on the lower left of the diagram.  Stars categorized as this type are hot and dim and thus also very small and dense.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid12191888\charrsid12191888 White dwarf}{\insrsid12191888 .
\par C}{\insrsid482556 . This subsection of the diagram most prominent in Globular clusters}{\insrsid12191888 
 contains stars which are burning helium in their cores and hydrogen in their shells.  Their name derives from the fact that they evolve across the diagram at nearly constant luminosities.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid12191888\charrsid12191888 Horizontal}{\insrsid12191888\charrsid12191888  Branch}{\insrsid12191888  Stars.
\par }{\insrsid6243231 
\par Bonus 5: }{\insrsid5445608 Identify stuff about }{\insrsid2829362 the Minoan civilization}{\insrsid5445608 .
\par }{\insrsid2829362 A. This island was home to the ancient Minoans.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid2829362\charrsid2829362 Crete
\par }{\insrsid2829362 B}{\insrsid5445608 . This is the location of the largest of the Minoan palaces which probably was at its height between 1700 and 1400 B.C. Its labyrinth structure recalls the myths of Daedalus and the Minotaur.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid5445608\charrsid5445608 Knossos}{\insrsid5445608 .
\par }{\insrsid2829362 C}{\insrsid5445608 .}{\insrsid2040912  Much of what we know about Minoan Civilization comes from investigations made by this British archaeologist.
\par \tab Answer:  Arthur }{\ul\insrsid2040912\charrsid2040912 Evans}{\insrsid5445608 .
\par  
\par }{\insrsid3353567 
\par }{\insrsid2040912 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2040912 {\insrsid3353567 Bonus}{\insrsid8725721  6}{\insrsid3353567 : }{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105\langfe1033\langnp4105\insrsid2040912\charrsid2040912  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}
}{\fldrslt }}{\cf1\insrsid2040912\charrsid2040912 Characters in Macbeth FTPE.
\par A.  This Thane of Fife kills Macbeth.
\par \tab A.  }{\ul\cf1\insrsid2040912\charrsid2040912 Macduff}{\cf1\insrsid2040912\charrsid2040912 
\par B.  This guy is with Macbeth when he encounters the three witches and is told his sons will rule Scotland, so Macbeth has him killed.
\par \tab A.  }{\ul\cf1\insrsid2040912\charrsid2040912 Banquo}{\cf1\insrsid2040912\charrsid2040912 
\par C.  Macbeth also kills this king of Scotland.
\par \tab A.  }{\ul\cf1\insrsid2040912\charrsid2040912 Duncan}{\insrsid9009880\charrsid2040912 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid8725721 
\par }{\insrsid3172610 Bonus 7: Identify stuff about a kind of virus FTPE.
\par A. This is a type of RNA virus which, by means of the reverse transcriptase enzyme, reproduces itself by transcribing into DNA rather than RNA.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid3172610\charrsid2040912 Retrovirus}{\insrsid3172610 .
\par B. This sub-category of retro-viruses is the cause of progressive degenerative diseases is best exemplified by AIDS.
\par \tab Answer: Lentivirus or Lentivirinae.
\par C. }{\insrsid2040912 Like all viruses, retroviruses have this outer covering surrounding its nucleic information.}{\insrsid3172610 
\par }{\insrsid2040912 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid2040912\charrsid2040912 capsid}{\insrsid2040912 
\par }{\insrsid8725721 
\par Bonus 8: Identify the }{\insrsid16665511 figures involved in the tumultuous year of 1848.
\par A. 1848 revolutions were a reaction to and end of this the era named for this conservative Austrian statesman and architect of the Carlsbad Decrees and balance of power following the Congress of Vienna.
\par \tab Answer: Clemens von }{\ul\insrsid16665511\charrsid16665511 Metternich}{\insrsid16665511 .
\par B. This revolutionary led Hungary\rquote s independence movement from the Austrian Empire.  After it was suppressed with Russian help he fled to Turkey and later died in Italy.
\par \tab Answer Louis }{\ul\insrsid16665511\charrsid16665511 Kossuth}{\insrsid16665511  or Lajos }{\ul\insrsid16665511\charrsid16665511 Kossuth}{\insrsid16665511 .}{\insrsid11493678 
\par C.}{\insrsid2040912  }{\insrsid7148537 This king of France was overthrown in 1848, leading to the creation of the Second Republic}{\insrsid11493678 .
\par }{\insrsid7148537 \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537 Louis Philippe}{\insrsid7148537 
\par }{\insrsid16665511 
\par }{\insrsid9919387 Bonus 9}{\insrsid4529060 : Identify the Hebrew/Jewish texts}{\insrsid7148537  or authors}{\insrsid4529060  from clues FTPE.
\par A. Also known as the Pentateuch, these first five books of the Bible were supposedly taught to the Jews by Moses after he brought them down from Sinai.  They end on the word \'93Israel.\'94
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid4529060\charrsid4529060 Torah}{\insrsid4529060 .
\par B. This is the codified collection of Jewish oral law.  It was compiled of the Tannaim and together with the Gemara it makes up the Talmud.\line \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid4529060\charrsid4529060 Mishna}{\insrsid4529060 .
\par C. The commander of Galilee in the war against Vespasian whom he later befriended, this mans\rquote  writings, including }{\i\insrsid4529060\charrsid4529060 The Jewish War}{\insrsid4529060  and }{\i\insrsid4529060\charrsid4529060 Antiquities of the Jews}{
\insrsid4529060 , are the best source on early Jewish history.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid4529060\charrsid4529060 Josephus}{\insrsid4529060 .
\par }{\insrsid16665511 
\par }{\insrsid9919387 Bonus 10}{\insrsid16665511 : }{\insrsid11493678 Steinbeck works from clues FTPE.
\par A. The Joad family moves from dust-bowl Oklahoma to California in this 1940 Pulitzer Prize winner.
\par \tab Answer: The }{\ul\insrsid11493678\charrsid11493678 Grapes of Wrath}{\insrsid11493678 .
\par B. Lee Chong, Dora Flood, Mack and Hazel are characters in this 1945 novel set in Monterrey, California which culminates with a birthday party for Doc, a young marine biologist.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid11493678\charrsid11493678 Cannery Row}{\insrsid11493678 .
\par C. }{\insrsid2829362 This novel focuses on the sibling rivalry between Cal and Aron Trask.}{\insrsid11493678 
\par }{\insrsid2829362 \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid2829362\charrsid2829362 East of Eden}{\insrsid2829362 
\par }{\insrsid12779981 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7148537 {\insrsid7148537 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid9919387 Bonus 11}{\insrsid7148537 :  }{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105\langfe1033\langnp4105\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}{\cf1\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537 
Answer the following about a certain philosopher FTPE.
\par A.  Also a mathematician and formulator of the first law of atmospheric pressure, this thinker\rquote s eponymous \'93wager\'94 posits a logical reason to believe in god.
\par \tab A.  Blaise }{\ul\cf1\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537 Pascal}{\cf1\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537 
\par B.  Appearing in its entirety only after Pascal\rquote s death, this large work of his fragments of an apology for Christianity is likely his best known work.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\ul\cf1\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537 Pensees}{\cf1\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537  (Pohn-say; acc. \'93Thoughts\'94 grudgingly)
\par C.  Pascal was a convert to this Protestant offshoot that was centered in Port-Royal.
\par \tab A.  }{\ul\cf1\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537 Jansenism}{\insrsid7483583\charrsid7148537 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid12519557 
\par }{\insrsid7148537 
\par }{\insrsid12519557 Bonus}{\insrsid9919387  12}{\insrsid12519557 : Answer questions about the Upper Peninsula of Michigan.
\par A. }{\insrsid8945401 This body of water separates Lake Huron and Lake Michigan and thus the UP from the rest of Michigan.}{\insrsid12519557 
\par }{\insrsid8945401 \tab Answer: Straits of }{\ul\insrsid8945401\charrsid8945401 Mackinac}{\insrsid8945401 .
\par B. At around 20,000 people this city which is home to Northern Michigan University and Presque Isle Point Park is the largest in the UP}{\insrsid7148537 ; gratuitous hint:  it shares its name with a private university in Milwaukee}{\insrsid8945401 .}{
\insrsid7148537 
\par }{\insrsid8945401 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid8945401\charrsid8945401 Marquette}{\insrsid8945401 .
\par C. This is the only Interstate Highway on the UP.  It begins in Sault Ste. Marie}{\insrsid2829362  and eventually ends in southwestern}{\insrsid8945401  Florida.
\par \tab Answer: Interstate }{\ul\insrsid8945401\charrsid8945401 75}{\insrsid8945401 .
\par }{\insrsid7148537 
\par }{\insrsid9919387 Bonus 13}{\insrsid3096187 : Identify }{\insrsid2829362 these dudes who killed dragons FTPE.}{\insrsid14841331 
\par }{\insrsid2829362 A.  This Sumerian deity killed the sky dragon Tiamat.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid2829362\charrsid8415478 Marduk}{\insrsid2829362 
\par B.  This English patron saint is often depicted slaying a dragon.
\par \tab Answer:  St. }{\ul\insrsid2829362\charrsid8415478 George}{\insrsid2829362 
\par C.  }{\insrsid8415478 This hero dies from a wound he receives after killing a dragon, despite the ministrations of his friend Wiglaf.}{\insrsid2829362 
\par }{\insrsid8415478 \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid8415478\charrsid8415478 Beowulf}{\insrsid8415478 
\par }{\insrsid7148537 
\par }{\insrsid9919387 Bonus 14}{\insrsid482556 : Gas laws from clues FTPE.
\par A. Th}{\insrsid7306372 is law states that the effusion}{\insrsid482556  rate of a gas is inversely proportional t}{\insrsid7306372 o the square root of the}{\insrsid3947831  molar}{\insrsid7306372  mass of its constituent particles
\par }{\insrsid482556 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid7306372\charrsid7306372 Graham}{\insrsid7306372 \rquote s law of effusion.
\par B. This law states that for a combination of gases in a container the total pressure exerted will be equal to the sum of the pressures that each gas exerts if it were by itself.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid7306372\charrsid7306372 Dalton}{\insrsid7306372\charrsid7306372 \rquote s law of }{\ul\insrsid7306372\charrsid7306372 partial pressure}{\insrsid7306372 .
\par C. It states that the quanti}{\insrsid3947831 ty of gas a dissolved in a solution}{\insrsid7306372  is directly proportional to the pressure of the gas above that }{\insrsid3947831 
solution.  It does not apply if the gas and the solvent undergo a chemical reaction.}{\insrsid7306372 
\par }{\insrsid3947831 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid3947831\charrsid3947831 Henry}{\insrsid3947831 \rquote s Law.
\par }{\insrsid7148537 
\par }{\insrsid9919387 Bonus 15}{\insrsid3232263 : Stuff from Truman\rquote s first term FTPE.
\par A. This 1947 bill created the CIA, merged the departments of war and the navy to form the Department of Defense and separated the Air Force from the Army.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid3232263\charrsid3232263 National Security}{\insrsid3232263  Act (of 1947).
\par B. The Truman Doctrine\rquote s policy of containment found the most success in this country where U.S. aid helped the Democratic EDES defeat the Communist EAM-ELAS in a civil war which had been ongoing since Nazi occupation.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid3232263\charrsid3232263 Greece}{\insrsid3232263  or }{\ul\insrsid3232263\charrsid3232263 Hellas}{\insrsid3232263 . (Moderator: complement the team of they actually answer \'93Hellas).
\par C. This bill, passed over Truman\rquote s veto, nearly negated the New Deal Wagner Act by making closed shops illegal and allowing the president to call a \'93cooling off\'94 period if strikes could threaten national safety.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid3232263\charrsid3232263 Taft-Hartley}{\insrsid3232263  Act or }{\ul\insrsid3232263\charrsid3232263 Labor-Management Relations}{\insrsid3232263  Act of 1947.}{\insrsid1837162 
\par }{\insrsid8415478 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid9919387 Bonus 16}{\insrsid1837162 : }{\insrsid8415478 Identify these works by a guy whose name in English would be \'93Joe Green\'94 FTPE.}{\insrsid860446 
\par }{\insrsid8415478 A.  This Giussepi Verdi opera\rquote s title character is a humpbacked dwarf ends up being responsible for his daughter\rquote s death.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid8415478\charrsid8415478 Rigoletto}{\insrsid8415478 
\par B.  This Verdi work concerns Violetta and her sad and dramatic death from TB.
\par \tab Answer:  La }{\ul\insrsid8415478\charrsid8415478 Traviata}{\insrsid8415478 
\par C.  Containing the famous \'93Anvil Chorus,\'94 this work focuses on Manrico, a singer.
\par \tab Answer:  Il }{\ul\insrsid8415478\charrsid8415478 Trovatore}{\insrsid8415478 
\par }{\insrsid15939986 
\par }{\insrsid7148537 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7148537 {\insrsid15939986 Bonus}{\insrsid14615080  17}{\insrsid7148537 : }{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105\langfe1033\langnp4105\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}
}{\fldrslt }}{\cf1\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537 Answer the following about a 17}{\cf1\super\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537 th}{\cf1\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537 -century epic poem for 5-10-15.
\par }{\cf1\insrsid7148537 A. }{\cf1\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537 (5 pts.) Written to \'93justify the ways of God to man,\'94 this John Milton work explores the rebellion of Lucifer, \'93the brightest angel in all of heaven.\'94
\par \tab A.  }{\i\ul\cf1\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537 Paradise Lost}{\cf1\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid7148537 B. (10 pts.) }{\cf1\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537 This second in command in Hell, the Lord of the Flies, is the one who proposes to Satan to seduce humans to join the cause of the fallen Angels.
\par \tab A.  }{\ul\cf1\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537 Beelzebub}{\cf1\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537 
\par C. }{\cf1\insrsid7148537 (15 pts.)}{\cf1\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537  After Gabriel\rquote s assistant angels fail to prevent Satan from tempting Eve, God sends this other archangel to warn Adam and Eve not to be curious.
\par \tab A.  }{\ul\cf1\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537 Raphael}{\insrsid7148537\charrsid7148537  }{\insrsid9919387\charrsid7148537 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid8945401 
\par }{\insrsid7148537 
\par }{\insrsid3947831 Bonus 18: Stuff about Superconductivity FTPE.
\par A. In 1911 Karnerlingh Onnes first discovered superconductivity in this element by dropping its temp}{\insrsid11300806 erature}{\insrsid3947831  to 4.2 Kelvin.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid3947831\charrsid3947831 Mercury}{\insrsid3947831 .
\par B. Three men shared the 1}{\insrsid4343517 972 Physics Nobel}{\insrsid3947831  for this theory which explained classical superc
onductivity by asserting that at very low temperatures electrons in a current move in pairs eliminating scattering and thus eliminating electrical resistance.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid3947831\charrsid3947831 BCS}{\insrsid3947831  or }{\ul\insrsid3947831\charrsid3947831 B}{\insrsid3947831 ardeen-}{\ul\insrsid3947831\charrsid3947831 C}{\insrsid3947831 ooper-}{\ul\insrsid3947831\charrsid3947831 S}{
\insrsid3947831 chrieffer.
\par C. In 1987 Bednorz and Mull}{\insrsid11300806 er observed superconductivity}{\insrsid3947831  in this type of ceramic}{\insrsid11300806  at temps as high as 90 K.  It is composed of}{\insrsid3947831  copper, oxygen, an alkaline earth metal}{
\insrsid11300806  and a lanthanide metal, for example yttrium-barium-copper oxide.}{\insrsid3947831 
\par }{\insrsid11300806 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid11300806\charrsid11300806 perovskite}{\insrsid11300806 s.
\par }{\insrsid7148537 
\par }{\insrsid12457200 Bonus 19: }{\insrsid16329720 Ancient Egyptian Kings and Queens from clues, FTPE.
\par A. Known for his plethora of monuments this king reigned sixty-seven years from 1292-1225 B.C.E. He fought the Battle of Kadesh to a draw with the Hitties and was probably the pharaoh of Exodus.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid16329720\charrsid3232263 Ramses II}{\insrsid16329720 .  (Also accept Ozymandias, his Greek name).
\par B. This woman whose extant bust has given her a reputation as one of the great beauties of antiquity was the wife of Akhenaton for the first twelve years of his rule and was also the aunt of Tutankhamen.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid16329720\charrsid3232263 Nefertiti}{\insrsid16329720 .
\par C. Called the Napoleon of Ancient Egypt he fought 16 successful campaigns including his 1469 victory at Megiddo.  His mother Hatshepsut was the actual ruler for much of his early reign.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid16329720\charrsid16329720 Thutmose III}{\insrsid16329720  or }{\ul\insrsid16329720\charrsid16329720 Thothmes III}{\insrsid16329720 .
\par }{\insrsid9919387 
\par }{\insrsid14615080 Bonus 20: Identify the characters from Russian literature, FTPE.}{\insrsid6251473 
\par A. The religious nature of the twenty-five poems written by this character and placed at the end of his eponymous novel angered Soviet authorities as much as his anti-Marxist discussions with his Uncle Kolya.
\par }{\insrsid6046801 \tab Answer: Doctor }{\ul\insrsid6046801\charrsid6046801 Zhivago}{\insrsid6046801  or }{\cs15\insrsid6251473\charrsid6046801 Yury Andreyevich }{\cs15\ul\insrsid9899307 Zhiv}{\cs15\ul\insrsid6251473\charrsid6046801 ago}{
\cs15\insrsid6046801 .}{\insrsid6251473 
\par B. One of the first superfluous men, this title character of a verse novel spurns the love of Tatyana, kills the poet Lensky in a duel, and later tries to win back Tatyana but she rebukes him.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid6251473\charrsid6046801 Eugene Onegin}{\insrsid6251473  or }{\ul\insrsid6251473\charrsid6046801 Yevgeny Onegin}{\insrsid6251473 .
\par C. This }{\insrsid9899307 protagonist of an 1862 novel is a nihilist and a foil for}{\insrsid6251473  Pavel Petrovich Kersanov the }{\insrsid9899307 uncle of his friend Arkady}{\insrsid6046801 .}{\insrsid6251473 
\par }{\insrsid6046801 \tab Answer: }{\insrsid9899307 Eugene Vasslich }{\ul\insrsid6046801\charrsid9899307 Bazarov}{\insrsid6046801 .
\par }{\insrsid8945401 
\par }}