{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff4\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f4\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Helvetica;}{\f35\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f40\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times};}
{\f41\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f42\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f44\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f45\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f46\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f47\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f48\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f49\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f81\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Helvetica CE;}
{\f82\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Helvetica Cyr;}{\f84\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Helvetica Greek;}{\f85\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Helvetica Tur;}{\f86\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Helvetica (Hebrew);}{\f87\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Helvetica (Arabic);}
{\f88\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Helvetica Baltic;}{\f89\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Helvetica (Vietnamese);}{\f391\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f392\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}{\f394\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}
{\f395\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f396\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}{\f397\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}{\f398\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}{\f399\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Tahoma (Vietnamese);}
{\f400\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Tahoma (Thai);}{\f441\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times CE{\*\falt Times};}{\f442\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times Cyr{\*\falt Times};}{\f444\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times Greek{\*\falt Times};}
{\f445\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times Tur{\*\falt Times};}{\f446\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times (Hebrew){\*\falt Times};}{\f447\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times (Arabic){\*\falt Times};}{\f448\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times Baltic{\*\falt Times};}
{\f449\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f35\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \ssemihidden \styrsid10224721 Balloon Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid15773\rsid1853204\rsid2438232\rsid2823486\rsid4288149\rsid7608420\rsid8340321\rsid10224721\rsid12341839
\rsid13640683\rsid14767855\rsid15747548}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.3416;}{\info{\title Valencia Fall Invitational 2003}{\author cborglum}{\operator cborglum}{\creatim\yr2003\mo11\dy5\hr12\min29}{\revtim\yr2003\mo11\dy7\hr9\min37}
{\printim\yr2003\mo11\dy7\hr9\min37}{\version7}{\edmins77}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords3045}{\nofchars17361}{\*\company Valencia Community College}{\nofcharsws20366}{\vern16453}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot14767855 \fet0\sectd 
\pgnrestart\linex0\colsx0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid14767855 
\f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f40\cf1\insrsid14767855\charrsid14767855 Valencia Fall Invitational 2003
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 Round 11\emdash Questions by Rutgers-Newark and Bryn Mawr (from SNEWT) }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid12341839 with additions by CB, Angelina Fadool}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  and Raj Dhuwalia
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7608420 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 TOSSUP 1}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid13640683 :  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid7608420\charrsid7608420 Pencils ready: it\rquote 
s math time!  For ten points, convert the base-ten number 53 to a base-four number.
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7608420 {\f0\fs20\insrsid7608420 ANSWER:  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid7608420\charrsid15747548 311}{\f0\fs20\insrsid7608420  (read:  three-one-one)}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855\charrsid7608420 

\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par TOSSUP 2}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15747548 :    The emphasis on light and on the classes of angels in this work are likely the influence of the author\rquote s reading of the critically important Neo-Platonist thinker Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite.  It
s first word, \'93Glory,\'94 indicates the author\rquote s pious joy at this stage of his journey, the culmination of a trip that began with his wandering alone in a dark wood.  
Ending with a vision of God himself, FTP name this third and last section of Dante\rquote s Divine Comedy.
\par 
\par ANSWER:  }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid15747548\charrsid15747548 Paradiso}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15747548  (acc. }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid15747548\charrsid15747548 Paradise}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15747548 )
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par TOSSUP 3:   Born in England in 1801, he espoused the connection between God, nature, and nation early on in his career. Later on, however, with the advent of railroads, his views weren\rquote t so clear-cut. He constantly wondered whether
 industrialization was progress, or the end of holiness (of nature). A sawed-up tree-trunk in his paintings is symbolic of this question, whereas a gnarled tree is a sign of antiquity, i.e. the American past. FTP, identify this pioneering American artist 
who raised the status of landscapes in such work}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid7608420 s as \'93The Falls of Kaaterskill,\'94 \'93The Course of Empire,\'94 and \'93The Oxbow,\'94}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  the founder of the Hudson River School.
\par 
\par ANSWER: Thomas }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Cole}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par TOSSUP 4:   You were lucky that you met Rover on the train, he got you a delivery job for Nook.  Be sure to visit K.K. Slider every Saturday night, he\rquote 
ll jam for you.  Sahara is here to sell you an exotic carpet from far away, and if you give Wendell his favorite food, he\lquote ll give you some wallpaper.  FTP, these are all characters from what popular Nintendo Game Cube video game?
\par 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Animal Crossing}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8340321 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 TOSSUP 5}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855\charrsid8340321 :  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid8340321\charrsid8340321 
After a childhood spent in exile in Kuwait, this leader launched a successful campaign }{\f0\fs20\insrsid8340321 in 1902 to recapture his family\rquote }{\f0\fs20\insrsid8340321\charrsid8340321 
s traditional home of Riyadh and eventually, the surrounding areas. As a ruler, he wisely adopted a policy of self-interest: staying neutral during WWII, keeping out of local conflicts and making profitable concessions to US oil companies. FTP, name this 
man, a leader of the Wahhabi movement in Islam, who united and declared himself king of the area he named Saudi Arabia.
\par \tab A}{\f0\fs20\insrsid4288149 nswer: }{\f0\fs20\insrsid8340321\charrsid8340321  Abd al-Aziz }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid8340321\charrsid4288149 ibn Saud}{\f0\fs20\insrsid8340321\charrsid8340321 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8340321 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4288149 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 TOSSUP 6:   }{\field{\*\fldinst {\f0\fs20\lang4105\langfe1033\langnp4105\insrsid4288149\charrsid4288149  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}{
\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid4288149\charrsid4288149 The Leyden Jar is an example of this type of circuit component.  In a 
circuit, they often have paper or mica between two rolled-up conducting plates, while textbook ones often consist of two parallel plates.  In practice, they are usually rated in terms of micro- or pico-farads.  FTP, name these circuit devices, defined as 
an arrangement of conductors used to store electric charge.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4288149 {\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid4288149\charrsid4288149 \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid4288149\charrsid4288149 capacitor}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid4288149\charrsid4288149  (accept }{
\f0\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid4288149\charrsid4288149 condenser}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid4288149\charrsid4288149 )}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855\charrsid4288149 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid13640683 
\par 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 TOSSUP 7:  }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid13640683 First published in 1896 in the collection A Shropshire Lad, the title figure is now a \'93[t]ownsman of a stiller town.\'94  The speaker seems both ir
onic and sincere simultaneously when he muses that the title figure is a \'93[s]mart lad, to slip betimes away/From fields where glory does not stay.\'94  So goes, FTP, what poem by A. E. Housman about a runner who has died an early death?}{
\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid13640683 \tab 
\par ANSWER:  \'93}{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid13640683\charrsid13640683 To an Athlete Dying Young}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid13640683 \'94}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par TOSSUP 8:  These organelles handle the products of receptor-mediated endocytosis in addition to a variety of other functions. A hydrogen ion ATPase enzyme is found in the membranes of these organelles to acidify the internal environment, f
or a low pH is required to keep its many enzyme contents active, as well as to protect the rest of the cell from their harmful effects. FTP; identify these organelles more commonly referred to as the "garbage disposal system" of a cell.
\par 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Lysosomes}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par TOSSUP 9:  Based on the author\rquote s first wife Siri von Essen as a warning to her, it was made into a ballet by Birgit Cullberg, an opera by Ned Rorem, and a film by Alf Sj\'f6
berg.  The conventional divisions of acts, scenes, and intermissions were substituted
 with pantomime and a peasant dance. There are three speaking parts in the play, including Christine, the cook, the main character, an aristocrat who has been raised to hate men, and the valet Jean, whom she has an affair with. FTP, identify this censored
 play by August Strindberg.  
\par 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Fr\'f6ken Julie}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  (accept }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Miss Julie}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  or }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Countess Julie}{
\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  or }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Lady Julie}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 )
\par 
\par TOSSUP 10:  A Republican member in the House of Representatives from 1885 to1891, he was on the Ways and Means Committee and took a prominent part in th
e framing of the McKinley Bill of 1890. In 1906, he was elected to the Senate. He had an isolationist policy and he voted against United States entry into World War I. Earlier in 1900, he was elected governor of Wisconsin, during which time he instituted 
many measures for the nomination of candidates by direct vote and the regulation of railroad rates. FTP, identify this man nominated as the presidential candidate of the Progressive Party in 1924. 
\par  
\par ANSWER: Robert }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 La Follette}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par TOSSUP 11: In one particular 
legend, this parthenogenetic god was thrown from Olympus onto the island of Lemnos after he sided with his mother in an argument against Zeus. Another legend, commonly depicted in Greek art, has Dionysus taking him back to Olympus intoxicated and slumped 
over the back of a mule.  Worshipped predominantly in Athens, he managed to marry Aphrodite, despite being depicted as an animated cripple bent over an anvil.  FTP, identify this Greek god of fire, known to the Romans as Vulcan. 
\par 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Hephaestus}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  (accept }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Vulcan}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  before Lemnos)
\par 
\par TOSSUP 12:  The account of its finding is detailed in The House of the Devil; it was discovered in 1937 by a Missouri pilot who left his Falamingo monoplane on top of the tepui, or tabletop mountain, and descended with his three com
panions on foot. Rising 3,212 feet, with a free fall of 2,421 feet, it is 16 times the height of Niagara Falls.  Located in Canaima National Park, Venezuela, FTP name this tallest waterfall in the world. 
\par 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Angel Falls}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8340321 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 TOSSUP 13}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid8340321 :  For Diaghilev he composed the ballets Chout and Le Pas d\rquote Acier, while Sergei Eisenstein\rquote s film }{
\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid8340321 Alexander Nevsky}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid8340321  was the source of both a namesake cantata and the suite }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid8340321 Lieutenant Kije}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid8340321 .  He also wrote the opera }{
\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid8340321 War and Peace }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid8340321 and the ballet }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid8340321 Romeo and Juliet}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid8340321 , as well as the neoclassical }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid8340321 Classical}{
\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid8340321  Symphony and a famous piece of children\rquote s music in which the human title character is represented by the violin.  FTP, name this composer of \'93Peter and the Wolf.\'94 
\par  
\par ANSWER: Sergei Sergeyevich }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid8340321 Prokofiev}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par TOSSUP 14:  He was influenced greatly by both Caesar\rquote s Commentaries on the Gallic War and his own experiences on the Argentine Pampas. As a commander of the naval forces of Uruguay, he was known as \'93The Hero of Montevideo\'94
 for his attempts to fend off Argentina\rquote s dictator; he ended up in South America after being condemned to death for participating in an insurrection of Genoa against Piedmont. FTP, identify this wearer of a flamboyant \'93red shirt\'94
 uniform, an Italian general responsible for the unification of Italy. 
\par 
\par ANSWER: Giuseppe }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Garibaldi}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par TOSSUP 15: }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15747548 This religion classifies all the reality of the universe into two classes:  ajiva and jiva, meaning living beings and non-living objects.  Its guiding principles are the nine Tattvas
, Followers believe in 24 Tirthankaras, }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid10224721 those who complete the full cycle of existence, the 24th of which is the religion\rquote s founder, Mahavira.  FTP name this religion of India which strictly follows the 
code of ahimsa, or non-violence, to the point of sweeping the ground before their path to preserve insects.}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid10224721 
\par ANSWER:  }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid10224721\charrsid10224721 Jain}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid10224721 ism
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par TOSSUP 16:  Born in 1903, this archaeologist\rquote s autobiography is titled }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 White Africa}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 .  Raised among the children of the Kikuyu tribe, he gradua
ted from Cambridge and made important discoveries of human and proto-human skeletons at Rusinga Islands.  His wife and son also made significant discoveries in the field, most notably his son Richard\rquote 
s discovery of the Turkana boy, the skeleton of a 9-year
-old hominid that existed about 1.5 million years ago.  FTP, name this discoverer of the oldest Homo Sapiens in the world, the head of a British archaelogical family closely connected with Olduvai Gorge.
\par 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 L}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ouis }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Leakey}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par TOSSUP 17:  }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid13640683 In 2002 a 220-pou
nd statue of the title character of this short story was stolen in St. Petersburg.  That character is first found in a roll by a barber named Ivan, whose wife thinks he has harmed someone to get it.  Eventually the reader learns it left of its own accord 
from a man named Kovalev, who observes it in the fancy dress of a civil servant before it returns to him.  FTP name this Nikolai Gogol short story about a missing item from Kovalev\rquote s face.}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid13640683 
\par ANSWER:  \'93}{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid13640683\charrsid13640683 The Nose}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid13640683 \'94
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par TOSSUP 18:  Assumed to have no electric charge
, the first trace of these particles was discovered during the 1980s, at the electron-positron-collider, PETRA, in Hamburg, Germany; they operate only over a short range because of their massiveness; eight exist, even thogh nine would seem to exist, one f
o
r each color-anticolor pair.  Quantum Chromodynamics is based upon the interaction of quarks with these particles, which are responsible for the formation of protons and neutrons by binding quarks together.  FTP, name this carrier of the strong nuclear fo
rce, which holds together the parts of an atomic nucleus.
\par 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Gluons}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par TOSSUP 19:  Accomplished for 10 million dollars, it was backed by President Pierce, as he wanted to insure U.S. possession of the Mesilla Valley.  Purportedly done to clear up some c
onfusion after the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, it was mainly carried through to make possible a southern railroad to the Pacific.  FTP name this acquisition of land by the United States in 1853, named for the railroad promoter and diplomat that negotiate
d the deal.
\par 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Gadsden}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  Purchase
\par 
\par TOSSUP 20: }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid8340321  }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
This author was born in West Virginia, but spent the first half of her life in China.  She returned to the United States to graduate from Randolph-Macon Women's College in Lynchburg, Virginia in 1914, but a
gain went to China to teach in a missionary school for Chinese boys.  She would go onto write }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 The Exile}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 , and }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 Fighting Angel}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
, biographies of her parents.  FTP name this author, most famous for her novel on a Chinese peasant, }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 The Good Earth}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 .
\par 
\par ANSWER: Pearl }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Buck}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15773 {\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 \page }{\f40\fs22\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 Valencia Fall Invitational 2003\emdash Round 11 Boni}{\f40\fs22\cf1\insrsid14767855\charrsid15773 

\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2823486 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 BONUS 1}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid7608420 :  }{\field{\*\fldinst {\f0\fs20\lang4105\langfe1033\langnp4105\insrsid2823486\charrsid2823486  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\
r 1}}{\fldrslt }}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486\charrsid2823486 30-20-10 Name the novelist from works.
\par (30 pts.)  }{\i\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486\charrsid2823486 The Spoils of Poynton}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486\charrsid2823486 ; }{\i\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486\charrsid2823486 The Awkward Age}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486\charrsid2823486 
\par (20 pts.)  }{\i\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486\charrsid2823486 The Tragic Muse}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486\charrsid2823486 ; }{\i\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486\charrsid2823486 What Maisie Knew}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486\charrsid2823486 
\par (10 pts.)  }{\i\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486\charrsid2823486 The Wings of the Dove}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486\charrsid2823486 ; }{\i\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486\charrsid2823486 The Turn of the Screw}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486 \tab }{
\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2823486 {\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486 \tab ANSWER:  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid2823486\charrsid2823486 H}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486 enry }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid2823486\charrsid2823486 James
}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486\charrsid2823486 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid7608420 
\par 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 BONUS 2: Answer the following questions about the human brain FTP each.
\par 
\par [10] This part of the human brain is an important relay station for the sensory impulses and also is the origin of many of the involuntary acts of the eye, such as the narrowing of the pupil in bright light. 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Midbrain}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [10] This part of the human brain acts as a regulator, controlling body temperature,  metabolism, heart rate, sexual development, sleep, and the body\rquote s use of fat and water. 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 hypothalamus}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [10] Name the lobe in the human brain in which the speech center is located. 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER:  }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 frontal}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 BONUS 3: For the stated number of points, identify the British monarch.
\par 
\par [5] He lost the American colonies during the Revolutionary War.
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 George III}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [5] The last absolute monarch of England, he was convicted of treason and then executed.
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Charles I}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [10] After the death of her Catholic sister, Mary I, this monarch tried to restore religious order by declaring England a Protestant state.
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Elizabeth I}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [10] This king of Wessex kept England from the worst of the Dark Ages by encouraging his bishops to promote literacy while he himself translated many works into Anglo-Saxon.
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid2823486 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Alfred the Great}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 BONUS 4: Many compositions have been inspired by literary works. Given the piece and the composer, identify the writer whose eponymous work was used as an inspiration and/or text FTP each. 
\par 
\par [10] }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  by Claude Debussy
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: St\'e9phane }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Mallarm\'e9}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [10] The \'93Ode to Joy\'94 from the }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 Choral}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  Symphony by Beethoven
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: Friedrich von }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Schiller}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [10] }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 Billy Budd}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855   by Benjamin Britten
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: Herman }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Melville}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15773 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 BONUS 5}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855\charrsid15773 : }{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773   }{\field{\*\fldinst {
\f0\fs20\lang4105\langfe1033\langnp4105\insrsid15773\charrsid15773  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 Name these Civil War engagements FTPE.
\par A.  This July 21, 1861, battle was so expected to be a Union rout that people brought picnic lunches and came to watch.  Confederates routed the Union forces, however.
\par \tab A.  }{\f0\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 First Bull Run}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773  or }{\f0\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 First Manassas}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 
\par B.  Taking place on April 6-7, 1862, near Pittsburg Landing, it was a marginal Union victory in that Confederate General Alberty Sydny Johnston was killed.
\par \tab A.  }{\f0\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 Shiloh}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 
\par C.  This May 5-6 battle in Virginia had many casualties caused by smoke inhalation as the woods in which the fighting occurred caught fire.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15773 {\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 \tab A.  Battle of the }{\f0\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 Wilderness}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1853204 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 BONUS 6: }{\field{\*\fldinst {\f0\fs20\lang4105\langfe1033\langnp4105\insrsid1853204\charrsid1853204  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}{
\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid1853204\charrsid1853204 You might need pencil and paper for this.  With no other forces present, a 30-newton force is applied to a 6-kilogram block.  For 15 points each:
\par }{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid1853204 [15]}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid1853204\charrsid1853204   What is the resulting acceleration of the block, in meters per second squared?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid1853204\charrsid1853204 5}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid1853204\charrsid1853204  meters per second squared [note: F=m*a]
\par }{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid1853204 [15]  }{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid1853204\charrsid1853204 The 30-newton force accelerates the block at 5 meters per second squared, and it is applied for 10 meters.  What is the work done by the force, in joules?
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1853204 {\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid1853204\charrsid1853204 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid1853204\charrsid1853204 300}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid1853204\charrsid1853204  joules [note: W=F*d]}{
\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855\charrsid1853204 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 BONUS 7: Identify the mythological figure on a 30-20-10 basis.
\par [30]: Terrifed for his safety, his mother sent him away, entrusting him to two of her closest colleagues - a woman warrior named Fiachel and a druidess named Bodbal. 
\par [20]: Tales of his exploits were documented in the 3rd century CE, now referred to as the Fenian Cycle.
\par [10]: This legendary Irish hero was the leader of the Fianna, a legendary army of Irish warriors serving under the High King of Ireland; he is perhaps most famous for catching and eating the Salmon of Knowledge.
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER:  Finn }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Mac Cumhail}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  or Finn }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Mac Coul}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 BONUS 8: 5-10-15, given the description, identify the JD Salinger character.
\par 
\par [5] He wonders what happens to the ducks in Central Park during winter and has an unsuccessful rendezvous with a prostitute after leaving Pencey Prep.
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Holden}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Caulfield}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  (either name acceptable)

\par 
\par [10] This title character has a nervous breakdown, and after a fight with her boyfriend, Lane, comes home to be comforted by her brother Buddy.
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Franny}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  Glass (}{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Francis}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
 Glass also acceptable)
\par 
\par [15] He is the most frequently mentioned character in Salinger\rquote s works. The oldest child in the precocious Glass family, he commits suicide during his honeymoon in Florida.
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Seymour}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  Glass
\par 
\par BONUS 9: Identify the artist who painted the given work FTPE. If you need an easier  work, you will get 5 points. 
\par 
\par [10] }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 Le Cirque}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 , or }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 The Circus }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par [5] }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grand Jatte}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: Georges }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Seurat}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [10] }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 The Potato Eaters}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par [5] }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 Sunflowers}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: Vincent }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 van Gogh}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [10] }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 Spirit of the Dead Watching}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par [5]  }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 Tahitian Women}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: Paul }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Gauguin}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15773 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 BONUS 10: }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773  }{\field{\*\fldinst {\f0\fs20\lang4105\langfe1033\langnp4105\insrsid15773\charrsid15773  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}
}{\fldrslt }}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 Stuff about a certain economic policy for fifteen points each.
\par A.  This general term}{\b\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773  }{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 refers to regulatory and trade practices in Western Europe between 1550 and 1720 which were meant to help nations prosper.
\par \tab A.  }{\f0\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 mercantilism}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 
\par B.  Though this national commercial enterprise didn\rquote t make much of a dent in its Dutch counterpart, it did help create the Raj and other portions of its nation\rquote s colonial holdings.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15773 {\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 \tab A.  }{\f0\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 British East India Company}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855\charrsid15773 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 BONUS 11:  Identify the following terms from economics FTP each.
\par 
\par [10]  This mechanism, predicted by Adam Smith, is said to operate the }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 economy while remaining unseen.}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER:}{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855  Invisible hand}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [10] Used in context of price, income, etc., it indicates how one variable changes in  response to another.
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Elasticity}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [10]  Developed by W.S. Gossett, this statistical method deals with the problems associated with inference based on "small" samples.
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: Student\rquote s }{\b\i\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 t}{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 -Test}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15773 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 BONUS 12:  }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 Pets play an important role in the Harry Potter series. Name these pets that help further the plot of J.K. Rowling
\rquote s hit series for the stated number of points.
\par  
\par [5]  This suspicious cat gains Ron\rquote s trust after helping Hermione, Harry and him to save Sirius Black and discover that Peter Pettigrew is still alive.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid15773 Crookshanks}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 
\par 
\par [5]  This hyperactive owl was given to Ron to replace his rat Scabbers in Book 3.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid15773 Pigwidgeon}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 
\par 
\par [10]  Hagrid was expelled from Hogwarts for standing by this giant arachnid when he  was thought to be the monster in the Chamber of Secrets.
\par \tab ANSWER:  }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid15773 Aragog}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 
\par 
\par [10]   This creature was almost executed after bitting Draco Malfoy on the hand.  Please remember to bow.
\par \tab ANSWER:  }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid15773 Buckbeak}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par       
\par BONUS 13:   Identify the following people associated with Existentialism FTPE.
\par 
\par [10] He insisted on the need for individual decision and leaps of faith in the search for religious truth, thereby contradicting Protestant rationalist theology. He is considered to be the founder of the movement.
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: Soren }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Kierkegaard}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [10] In contrast to Kierkegaard, he rejected the entire Judeo-Christian moral tradition in favor of a heroic pagan ideal after proclaiming the \'93death of God.\'94  
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: Friedrich }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Nietzsche}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [10]  He wrote that \'93man is condemned to be free\'94 in Being and Nothingness. 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: Jean Paul }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Sartre}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 
\par 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 BONUS 14:   Identify the geological period for 10 points given the years it spanned. If you also need an organism that first appeared in the period, you will get 5 points. 
\par 
\par [10] 4500 - 543 million years ago.
\par [5] Anaerobic bacteria
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Precambrian}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  (accept }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Proterozoic}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  or }{
\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Archaeozoic}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 )
\par 
\par [10] 417 - 354 million years ago
\par [5] Amphibians, Insects
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Devonian}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [10] 290 - 248 million years ago
\par [5] Dinosaurs
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Permian}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  (Not Triassic)
\par 
\par BONUS 15: Identify the following Roman Emperor, 30-20-10:
\par [30] His neglect of the armies was one of his many critical errors during his reign.  At one point, instead of leaving Rome to inspect his armies, he went to Greece and competed in the games there.
\par [20] He was the adopted son of the previous emperor, Claudius, who was supposedly murdered by his wife Agrippina to secure the throne for young Lucius (as he was known then). 
\par [10] An amateur musician, he is widely known for the apocryphal allegation that he fiddled while Rome burned.
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Nero}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  (accept early }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Lucius}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 )
\par 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 BONUS 16: Name the Faulkner work from characters  on a 5-10-15 basis.
\par 
\par [5]  Jason Compson III, Quentin Compson, Benjy Compson.
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: The }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Sound and the Fury}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [10] Anse Bundren, Addie Bundren, Whitfield, Jewel
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER:}{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855  As I Lay Dying}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [15] Thomas Sutpen, Clytie, Charles Bon.
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Absalom, Absalom!}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 BONUS 17: Given a description, identify the Hitchcock film FTSNOP.
\par 
\par [5] This film has a documentary-like opening that divulges the setting to be Phoenix, Arizona}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 ; the }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid12341839 protagonist is Norman Bates.
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Psycho}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [10] It pays homage to Eisenstein\rquote s }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 Battleship Potemkin}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  through a close-up of broken glasses during the sequence in which the children are attacked by the title animals.
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: The }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Birds}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [15]  }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid12341839 Loosely based on the Leopold and Loeb murder case, this was Hitchock\rquote s first color film}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 . Coincidentally, he was experimental in his use of cutting: there are no cuts.  
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Rope}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 BONUS 18: Name the composer from works, 30-20-10
\par [30]  }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 Vitebsk, Study on a Jewish Theme}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par [20]  }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 El Salon Mexico, Lincoln Portrait}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par [10] }{\i\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855  Fanfare for the Common Man, Rodeo}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: Aaron }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Copland}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15773 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 BONUS 19:  }{\field{\*\fldinst {\f0\fs20\lang4105\langfe1033\langnp4105\insrsid15773\charrsid15773  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}{
\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 Name these writers of Westerns FTPE.
\par A.  Perhaps the greatest of Western writers, and a favorite of Colonel Potter on MASH, this early 20}{\f0\fs20\cf1\super\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 th}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 -century practitioner\rquote s best-known work is probably }{
\i\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 Riders of the Purple Sage}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 .
\par \tab A.  Zane }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 Grey}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 \tab 
\par B.  This writer isn\rquote t exclusive to Westerns, having written }{\i\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 Terms of Endearment}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 , but he did write }{\i\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 Lonesome Dove}{
\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773  and }{\i\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 Streets of Laredo}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 .
\par \tab A.  Larry }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 McMurtry}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 
\par C.  Author of over 200 books and probably second only to Zane Grey in fame as a Western author, this man wrote }{\i\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 Hondo}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773  and }{\i\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 
How the West Was Won}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 .
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15773 {\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 \tab A.  Louis }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid15773\charrsid15773 L\rquote Amour}{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855\charrsid15773 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid12341839 
\par 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 BONUS 20: Name these extreme elements FTP each:
\par 
\par [10]  This is the only liquid nonmetallic element
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Bromine}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [10] This is the most electronegative element 
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Flourine}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par [10] This is the element with the highest melting point of all the metals
\par }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid15773 \tab }{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 ANSWER: }{\b\f40\fs20\ul\cf1\insrsid14767855 Tungsten}{\f40\fs20\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\f40\cf1\insrsid14767855 
\par 
\par }}