{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f4\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Helvetica;}{\f35\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f36\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}WP TypographicSymbols;}
{\f40\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times};}{\f41\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f42\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f44\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f45\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f46\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f47\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f48\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f49\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f81\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Helvetica CE;}{\f82\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Helvetica Cyr;}{\f84\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Helvetica Greek;}{\f85\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Helvetica Tur;}{\f86\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Helvetica (Hebrew);}
{\f87\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Helvetica (Arabic);}{\f88\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Helvetica Baltic;}{\f89\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Helvetica (Vietnamese);}{\f391\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f392\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}
{\f394\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f395\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f396\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}{\f397\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}{\f398\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}
{\f399\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Tahoma (Vietnamese);}{\f400\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Tahoma (Thai);}{\f441\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times CE{\*\falt Times};}{\f442\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times Cyr{\*\falt Times};}
{\f444\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times Greek{\*\falt Times};}{\f445\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times Tur{\*\falt Times};}{\f446\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times (Hebrew){\*\falt Times};}{\f447\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times (Arabic){\*\falt Times};}
{\f448\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times Baltic{\*\falt Times};}{\f449\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid8521125 Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\sl480\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext16 \styrsid8521125 Body Text 2;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 \styrsid4878998 Body Text 3;}{
\s18\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f35\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 \ssemihidden \styrsid396652 Balloon Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid396652\rsid4531382\rsid4737511\rsid4878998\rsid7946447
\rsid8521125\rsid9840900\rsid10032244\rsid13855522}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.3416;}{\info{\title Valencia Fall Invitational 2003}{\author cborglum}{\operator cborglum}{\creatim\yr2003\mo10\dy23\hr13\min43}{\revtim\yr2003\mo11\dy7\hr9\min58}
{\printim\yr2003\mo11\dy7\hr9\min58}{\version5}{\edmins44}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords3134}{\nofchars17870}{\*\company Valencia Community College}{\nofcharsws20963}{\vern16453}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz936\notabind\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\subfontbysize\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot4737511 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24\lang4105\langfe1033\langnp4105\insrsid10032244 
 SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 Valencia Fall Invitational 2003
\par }{\insrsid10032244\charrsid10032244 Round 13\endash Questions by CB, Amy Harvey, Angelina Fadool, and Brennan Enos, with science by Seth Teitler of Cal.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 1.  This title character of a poem \'93silently rowed to the Charlestown shore/Just as the moon rose over the bay\'94 near where the Somerset, a British man-of-war, was docked.  Later, every Middlesex villager heard his \'93
cry of defiance . . . not of fear,\'94 as well as the \'93hurrying hoofbeats of [his] steed.\'94  This is after he climbs the stairs of the Old North Church waiting for a signal of \'93one if by land, and two if by sea.\'94
  FTP name this historical Longfellow title character who, on the \'93eighteenth of April, in [1775], made a famous \'93midnight ride.\'94
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Paul Revere}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par 2.  In the late 1940s a lemon-lime flavored drink under this name was marketed by the Hartman Beverage Company of Knoxville; it\rquote s bottles featured the slogan, \'93It\rquote ll tickle your innards!\'94  In 1958,
 a salesman named Bill Jones bought the rights to the name for seven dollars and changed the taste by adding orange flavorings so it wouldn\rquote t compete with Pepsi\rquote 
s Teem.  Pepsi bought the drink in 1964 anyway, and after focusing on the South for a few years
, took it nationwide in the early 1970s.  Known to fuel many a quizbowler, FTP name this chemically green, high-caffeine soda now marketed with emphasis on extreme sports.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Mountain Dew}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8521125 \f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid8521125 3.  }{\f40\insrsid8521125 
A particle undergoes central field motion when this quantity 
only depends on the distance from a fixed point. This quantity is almost always approximately parabolic in the neighborhood of a local minimum, making the simple harmonic oscillator a versatile model. For a self-gravitating sphere, it is equal to -3/5 tim
es G times the mass squared over the radius. A conservative force can be expressed as the negative gradient of, FTP, what quantity which is given by 1/2 k x}{\f40\super\insrsid8521125 2}{\f40\insrsid8521125  for a spring?
\par \tab A. }{\f40\ul\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 potential energy}{\f40\insrsid8521125 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 4.  In the bottom center of the painting two stone cherubim can be seen and another statue of a boy appears at the right with a finger raised to its lips, symbolic of the painting\rquote 
s theme of sly deceit.  Trees with lush vegetation surround the three human figures, one of whom on the right holds two ropes attached to t
he title object.  Another man reclines at the lower left with his left arm outsretched toward a female above him in a bright pink dress whose left shoe can be seen in flight, having flown off her foot during her ascent.  FTP name this masterpiece of the r
ococo period by Jean Honore Fragonard.
\par \tab A.  The }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Swing}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par 5.  He\rquote s not Mozart, but at the age of seven he was already composing short pieces and performing regularly in his native land.  When he played for Robert Schumann in 1827, the great composer famously exclaimed, \'93Hats off, gentlemen\endash 
a genius!\'94  Early works include the Rondo a la Krakowiak and the Trio in G Minor, but it was in France where his other works gained acclaim, including waltzes like the \'93Grande Valse Brilliante\'94 and Opus 64, number 1, nicknamed the \'93
minute waltz.\'94  FTP name this composer of Mazurkas and Polonaises who was born in Poland.
\par \tab A.  Frederic }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Chopin}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid8521125 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid10032244 6.  It\rquote s not the Titanic, but Robert Ballard found its wreck about 5,000 meters below the Atlantic\rquote s surface roughly 600 miles west of B
rest.  Considered by international law a war grave, and thus not for exploration, Ballard only photographed it, though a later exploration by a crew led by filmmaker James Cameron found support for the idea that it had been scuttled by its crew in 1941, r
ather than sunk by torpedo damage from ships like the Sheffield and Prince of Wales.  FTP what was this German battleship named for a 19}{\fs24\super\insrsid10032244 th}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 -century prime minister?
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Bismarck}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par 7.  This character first appears in the 1937 novel }{\i\fs24\insrsid10032244 Beat to Quarters}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 , in which he is sent to Nicaragua to assist an uprising against the Spanish.  He appears in ten more novels, including }{
\i\fs24\insrsid10032244 Flying Colours}{\fs24\insrsid10032244  and }{\i\fs24\insrsid10032244 A Ship of the Line}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 , in which he is captured by the French after they damage his vessel, the Sutherland.  In }{\i\fs24\insrsid10032244 
The Last Encounter}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 , he visits Napoleon, whose navy he commanded vessels against in so many adventures.  FTP name this naval hero created by C. S. Forester.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Horatio Hornblower}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par 8.  As its initial elevation is only 740 feet, it moves slowly in its generally southeastward co
urse to its delta at Astrakhan.  Roughly 2,300 miles long, it still is the route for over half of the river freight in Russia.  FTP name this river that rises in the Valdai Hills, flows past Kazan and Nizhny Novgorad and empties into the Caspian.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Volga}{\fs24\insrsid10032244  River
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8521125 \f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid8521125 9.  }{\f40\insrsid8521125 
These members of superfamily Apoidea are sensitive to ultraviolet light and can navigate based on their perception of polarized light using the Sun as a compass, even when the Sun is not visible. One of the colonial varieties studied by Karl V
on Frisch performs a circling or waggling dance to communicate the distance and location of food. Members of order Hymenoptera, FTP name these flying insects adapted for feeding on nectar. (which sometimes live in hives)
\par \tab A: }{\f40\ul\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 bees}{\b\f40\ul\insrsid8521125 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par 10. It was really just a simple stockade, 53 feet in circumference, with earthworks on the outside, built in the center of what was called the \'93Great Meadow.\'94
  When built there were only 160 soldiers there, but 400 British regulars were there on July 3, 1754, in the battle that began the French and Indian War in the New World.  FTP name this fort at which a young Colonel George Washington\rquote 
s small army was routed by the French, the name of which refers to its need to be built.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Fort Necessity}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4737511 {\fs24\insrsid4737511 11.  }{\fs24\insrsid396652 He is often appealed to for }{\i\fs24\insrsid396652\charrsid396652 siddhi}{\fs24\insrsid396652 , and is one of the five
 gods worshipped in the Hindu offshoot called Pancayatana Puja.  Also called Ganapati, or Lord of Categories, and Vigneshvara,
 the Remover of Obstacles, the story behind his unusual appearance is that Siva, in a rage, cut off his head, but in remorse had his men find another one for him.  Quik-E-Mart proprietor Apu 
has a shrine to him in the store.  FTP name this elephant-headed Hindu god.}{\fs24\insrsid4737511 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid396652 \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid396652\charrsid396652 Ganesha}{\fs24\insrsid396652  (acc. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid396652\charrsid396652 Ganesh}{\fs24\insrsid396652  or }{\fs24\ul\insrsid396652\charrsid396652 Ganeesh}{\fs24\insrsid396652 )}{
\fs24\ul\insrsid396652\charrsid4737511 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par 12.  The story is set in northern Alabama, and as the protagonist stands on a bridge looking at the river, he hears a regular
 booming sound growing in intensity, which he soon realizes is the ticking of his own watch.  His name is Peyton Farquhar, a plantation owner whom a Union scout had tricked into attempting to burn a strategic bridge.  Before he can be hanged, though, he s
eems to escape, making it back to his plantation before he is jerked back to reality by the noose.  FTP name this eerie short story, set at the titular bridge, by Ambrose Bierce.
\par \tab A. \'93An }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 \'94 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8521125 \f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid8521125 13.  }{\f40\insrsid8521125 This theorem allows the possibi
lity of a finite residual value for ice and glasses which have ground state degeneracy greater than one. Also known as Nernst's heat theorem, in the case of crystal lattices and other systems with a unique ground state it is used to define the zero point 
on the entropy scale. Stating that the entropy of a system has a well-defined minimum at absolute zero, FTP name this law listed after the conservation of energy and non-decrease of entropy laws.
\par \tab A: }{\f40\ul\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 third law of thermodynamics}{\f40\insrsid8521125  (accept }{\f40\ul\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 Nernst's}{\b\f40\insrsid8521125  }{\f40\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 heat }{
\f40\ul\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 theorem}{\f40\insrsid8521125  prior to mention in the        \tab question)
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10032244 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 14}{\fs24\insrsid10032244\charrsid10032244 .  It\rquote s great classic }{\i\fs24\insrsid10032244\charrsid10032244 Hagakure}{
\fs24\insrsid10032244\charrsid10032244  was written in the early 18th century and i}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 dentifies it as \lquote a way of dying.\rquote }{\fs24\insrsid10032244\charrsid10032244   }{\fs24\insrsid10032244 Now }{
\fs24\insrsid10032244\charrsid10032244 used to i}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 dentify one of the most common role p}{\fs24\insrsid10032244\charrsid10032244 laying games in the United States,}{\fs24\insrsid10032244  it was historically b}{
\fs24\insrsid10032244\charrsid10032244 ased upon a modified feudal caste system and heavily reliant upo}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 n the concept of personal honor. }{\fs24\insrsid10032244\charrsid10032244  }{\fs24\insrsid10032244 Name this code, }{
\fs24\insrsid10032244\charrsid10032244 FTP}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 ,}{\fs24\insrsid10032244\charrsid10032244  literally translated as \'93way of the warrior}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 ,}{\fs24\insrsid10032244\charrsid10032244 \'94 }{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
which }{\fs24\insrsid10032244\charrsid10032244 governed the behavior of Japan\rquote s samurai warriors.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10032244 {\fs24\insrsid10032244\charrsid10032244 A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244\charrsid10032244 Bushido
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4737511 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 15.  }{\fs24\insrsid4737511\charrsid4737511 
It was first summoned by Philip IV in 1302 to obtain approval for his anticlerical policy.  Its powers were never clearly defined and it failed to gain the financial control that would have served as a counterweight to royal authority.  However after 175 
years of inactivity it was assembled in May 1789.  For ten points identify this French body consisting of clergy, nobles and commoners which disbanded in 1789 with the creation of the National Assembly.
\par \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid4737511\charrsid4737511 Estates General
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4737511 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 16. }{\fs24\insrsid4737511 This term was coined in an 1878 essay entitled \'93How to Make Our Ideas Clear\'94
 and was misused by the first real proponent of the American philosophy it now names. It}{\fs24\insrsid4737511 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 61 \\f "WP TypographicSymbols" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f36\fs24}}}{\fs24\insrsid4737511 
s most famous early practitioner defined truth 
as those ideas that work for the individual and gave his philosophy a subjectivity that John Dewey would later try to remove. FTP, name the philosophy asserts that thoughts are useless if they do not become action and which was espoused by William James.

\par \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid4737511 Pragmatism}{\fs24\insrsid4737511 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid8521125 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid10032244 17.  The protagonist is hired as tutor to the children of the mayor of the provincial town of Verrieres, but he messes up by having an affair with the mayor\rquote 
s wife, Madame Renal.  After leaving her to avoid scandal and join a seminary, h
e later impregnates the daughter of a marquis, Mathilde, but before he can marry her, Madame Renal writes the marquis accusing the protagonist of being a womanizer.  Enraged, that protagonist, Julien Sorel, kills Madame Renal and is executed for it.  The 
favorite novel of Al Gore, FTP name this colorfully titled work by Stendhal.
\par \tab A.  The }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Red and the Black}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4737511 {\fs24\insrsid4737511 18.  For ten juicy math }{\fs24\insrsid4737511\charrsid7946447 
points, find the first derivative of x times the exponential base e of x minus the exponential base e of x (x e}{\fs24\super\insrsid4737511\charrsid7946447 x}{\fs24\insrsid4737511\charrsid7946447  \endash  e}{\fs24\super\insrsid4737511\charrsid7946447 x}{
\fs24\insrsid4737511\charrsid7946447 ).
\par \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid4737511\charrsid4737511 x e}{\fs24\ul\super\insrsid4737511\charrsid4737511 x}{\fs24\insrsid4737511\charrsid7946447  (x times the exponential base e of x)}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid4737511 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid10032244 19.  Benjamin Harrison hurriedly signed the bill admitting this state to the union on July 3 since July 4 is the day on which new states could have their star added to the U.S. flag.  Its name comes that of a steamer
 full of miners that settled there in 1862, and means \'93gem of the mountains\'94 in a tribal language.  Its admittance to the union came after the Couer d\rquote 
Alene tribe was placated with large reservation lands.  Home to towns like Ketchum and Sun Valley, FTP what is this state with capital at Boise?
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Idaho}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\nowidctlpar\tx720\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8521125 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid8521125 20.  }{\fs24\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 
They are believed to form in the methane-rich atmospheres of Neptune and Uranus and then rain down on the core. Pressures of up to 2 megabars can be produced in anvil cells which put carved ones on t
he tips of piston cylinders, and specially purified artificial ones have the highest thermal conductivity of any known solid at room temperature. A large activation barrier means they take a long time to decay to graphite. FTP, name this valuable allotrop
e of carbon with Mohs hardness 10.}{\fs24\insrsid8521125 
\par \tab }{\fs24\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 Ans: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 diamond}{\fs24\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 s
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 Valencia Fall Invitational\endash Round 13 Boni
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 1.  Answer the following about stuff that happened on this date, Nov. 8, in history FTPE.
\par A.  In Munich in 1923 on this date some nut named Hitler made his first attempt to seize power by causing a ruckus in a drinking establishment in this event.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Beer Hall Putsch}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par B.  In 1994 on this date, for the first time in 40 years the Republican party gained control of both the house and senate, leading to this bombthrower to become Speaker of the House.
\par \tab A.  Newt }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Gingrich}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par C.  Anthracite miners in Pennsylvania, members of this union, came back to work after a five month strike on this date in 1905.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 United Mine Workers}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par 2.  Identify these founders of Christian offshoots on a 10-5 basis.
\par A.  (10 pts.) This Scot greatly offended Elizabeth I with his pamphlet \'93Blasts of the Trumpet against the Monstrous Regiment of Women.\'94
\par        (5 pts.)  He\rquote s better known for founding Presbyterianism.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\faauto\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 \tab \tab A.  John }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Knox}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 B.  (10 pts.)  This man argued that man was utterly depraved but through abasement to God and dependence on His will, man could show himself to be one of the \'93elect.\'94

\par        (5 pts.)   He argued this in his }{\i\fs24\insrsid10032244 Institutes of the Christian Religion}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 .
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\faauto\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 \tab \tab A.  John }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Calvin}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 C.  (10 pts.)  Injured during the siege of Pamplona in 1521, during his convalescence this man had an epiphany and dedicated him to the service of the Virgin Mary.
\par        (5 pts.)  He then founded the Jesuits.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\faauto\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 \tab \tab A.  Ignatius (of) }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Loyola}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4737511 {\fs24\insrsid4737511 3.  }{\fs24\insrsid4737511\charrsid7946447 F}{\fs24\insrsid4737511 T}{\fs24\insrsid4737511\charrsid7946447 SN}{\fs24\insrsid4737511 P }{
\fs24\insrsid4737511\charrsid7946447 find the vertices of the par}{\fs24\insrsid4737511 abolas with the given equations.}{\fs24\insrsid4737511\charrsid7946447 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid4737511 A. (5 pts.)}{\fs24\insrsid4737511\charrsid7946447  y = 2(x \endash  3)}{\fs24\super\insrsid4737511\charrsid7946447 2}{\fs24\insrsid4737511\charrsid7946447 
 + 5 (two times, in parentheses, x minus three, raised to the power three plus five);
\par \tab A. (3, 5)
\par }{\fs24\insrsid4737511 B. (10 pts.) }{\fs24\insrsid4737511\charrsid7946447 y = x}{\fs24\super\insrsid4737511\charrsid7946447 2}{\fs24\insrsid4737511\charrsid7946447  \endash  10 (x squared minus ten);
\par \tab A. (0, -10)
\par }{\fs24\insrsid4737511 C. (15 pts.) }{\fs24\insrsid4737511\charrsid7946447 y = x}{\fs24\super\insrsid4737511\charrsid7946447 2}{\fs24\insrsid4737511\charrsid7946447  - 2x \endash  1 (x squared plus two x minus one).
\par \tab A. (1, -2)}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 4.  Identify these works by one of Chris\rquote s favorite authors, James Joyce, FTPE.
\par A.  This novel tells of the childhood and early manhood of Stephen Dedalus, a day of whose later adventures is told in }{\i\fs24\insrsid10032244 Ulysses}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 .
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par B.  Joyce\rquote s only play, its central character is Richard Rowan, who returns to Dublin after years away on the continent.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Exiles}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par C.  Joyce\rquote s final work, this incredibly intricate stream-of-consciousness work focuses on the slippery characters Humphrey Chimpden Earwicker and Anna Livia Plurabelle.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Finnegan\rquote s Wake}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8521125 {\fs24\insrsid8521125 5.  }{\fs24\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 Answer the following on the 21 centimeter line, FTPE.
\par }{\fs24\insrsid8521125 A. }{\fs24\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 The 21 cm line is produced by a spin-flip transition in the atomic form of this element, the most abundant in the universe. 
\par \tab Ans: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 hydrogen}{\fs24\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid8521125 B. }{\fs24\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 The 21 cm line lies in this region of the electromagnetic spectrum.
\par \tab Ans: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 radio}{\fs24\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid4878998 C. }{\fs24\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 The 21 cm line spin-flip transition is made possible by this quantum mechanical effect due to the interaction of the proton and electron spins.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8521125 {\fs24\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 \tab Ans: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125 hyperfine}{\fs24\insrsid8521125\charrsid8521125  structure}{
\fs24\insrsid10032244\charrsid8521125 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 6.  Name these bodies of water in our evil neighbor, Canada, FTPE.
\par A.  Fed by its namesake river, this large lake straddles Alberta and Saskatchewan in the north and features the oddly named Uranium City on its northern shore.
\par \tab A.  Lake }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Athabasca}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par B.  This largest lake in Canada is in the northwestern area of the Northwest Territories.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Great Bear}{\fs24\insrsid10032244  Lake
\par C.  Wedged between New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, this bay sees the highest tidal range on Earth.
\par \tab A.  Bay of }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Fundy}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par 7.  Sooner or later in nearly every tournament, we need to talk about the Persian Wars.  Let\rquote s knock out the First war now FTPE.
\par A.  The forces of Darius were routed at this 490 BCE engagement in the First Persian War.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Marathon
\par }{\fs24\insrsid10032244 B.  This }{\fs24\insrsid396652 appropriately named }{\fs24\insrsid10032244 general led the Greek forces at Marathon.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Militiades
\par }{\fs24\insrsid10032244 C.  Legendarily, this man ran the 26 miles from Marathon to Athens to announce the Greek victory and then promptly died.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Pheidippides}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par 8.  Identify these works about WWII FTPE.
\par A.  The soldiers in this first novel by Norman Mailer are stationed on the Japanese-held island of Anopopei.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\insrsid10032244 The }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Naked and the Dead}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par B.  This long nonfiction article by John Hersey about the explosion of the first atomic bomb in Japan made up the entire editorial content of the August 31, 1946, issue of The New Yorker.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Hiroshima}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par C.  This James Jones novel about an army rifle company at Guadalcanal was made into a 1998 movie featuring George Clooney, Sean Penn and Nick Nolte, among others.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\insrsid10032244 The }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Thin Red Line}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid4878998 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid10032244 9.  Time to name that Abstract Expressionist FTPE!
\par A.  This painter of large, fuzzy rectangular shapes has a number of his massive works decorating his namesake chapel in Houston.
\par \tab A.  Mark }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Rothko}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par B.  Before dying in a drunken car crash, this star of the movement was moving back toward figuration.
\par \tab A.  Jackson }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Pollock}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par C.  This painter of the Woman series came to America from Holland as a stowaway hiding in a trunk on a passenger liner.
\par \tab A.  Willem }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 de Kooning}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par 10.  Name these famous ballets FTPE.
\par A.  Composed by Adolphe Charles Adam and considered perhaps the greatest ballet ever, this work\rquote s title character dies after her betrayal by Albrecht.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Giselle}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par B.  This Ballet Russe production composed by Stravinsky premiered in 1910 and is based on a Russian folktale about a magical creature that helps Prince Ivan rescue Princess Elena.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\insrsid10032244 The }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Firebird}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par C.  Another Ballet Russe work, this Stravinsky ballet concerns the title puppet and the love triangle that involves two other puppets.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Petrushka}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4878998 {\fs24\insrsid4878998 11.  }{\fs24\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998 Answer the following on molecules with 6 carbons, FTSNOP.
\par }{\fs24\insrsid4878998 A. (10 pts.) }{\fs24\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998 This most-common monosaccharide is commonly attacked in the first step of cellular respiration, and its blood level is controlled in part by insulin.
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9840900 \tab A.}{\fs24\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid4878998\charrsid9840900 glucose}{\b\fs24\ul\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid4878998 B. (10 pts.) }{\fs24\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998 Benzene is stabilized by having delocalized electrons in these molecular orbitals.
\par \tab A}{\fs24\insrsid9840900 .}{\b\fs24\insrsid4878998\charrsid9840900  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid4878998\charrsid9840900 pi}{\fs24\insrsid4878998\charrsid9840900  orbitals}{\b\fs24\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid4878998 C. (5 pts. each)}{\fs24\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998 Cyclohexane can exist in these two conformations.
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9840900 \tab A.}{\fs24\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid4878998\charrsid9840900 boat}{\fs24\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998  and }{\fs24\ul\insrsid4878998\charrsid9840900 chair}{\fs24\ul\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998 

\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par 12. Answer the following about the European medieval social and political order 5-10-15.
\par }{\fs24\insrsid4878998 A. }{\fs24\insrsid10032244 (5 pts.)  This term describes the system of vassalage and agricultural economy that dominated in medieval Europe.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 feudalism
\par }{\fs24\insrsid4878998 B. }{\fs24\insrsid10032244 (10 pts.)  This term denotes a parcel of land given by a lord to his vassal.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 fief
\par }{\fs24\insrsid4878998 C. }{\fs24\insrsid10032244 (15 pts.)  This term denotes the system by which all possessions of a man upon his death were transferred to his oldest son.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 primogeniture}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par 13.  Name the African-Americans who wrote the following novels FTPE.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-4320\li4320\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\faauto\rin0\lin4320\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 A.  }{\i\fs24\insrsid10032244 Native Son\tab }{\fs24\insrsid10032244 \tab \tab \tab }{\fs24\insrsid4878998 \tab }{
\fs24\insrsid10032244 A.  Richard }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Wright}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par B.  }{\i\fs24\insrsid10032244 Go Tell It on the Mountain}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 \tab \tab A.  James }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Baldwin}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-4320\li4320\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\faauto\rin0\lin4320\itap0\pararsid4878998 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 C.  }{\i\fs24\insrsid10032244 If He Hollers Let Him Go}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 \tab \tab \tab A.  Chester }
{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Himes}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 14.  }{\i\fs24\insrsid10032244 Sight and Sound}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
 magazine has polled critics on the ten best films ever every ten years since 1952.  Name these movies on the 2002 list FTPE.
\par A.  Along with }{\i\fs24\insrsid10032244 Potemkin}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 , this is the only film to be named in all six polls.  Directed by Jean Renoir, it depicts the shallowness of the goings-on at an aristocrat\rquote s country home party.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\insrsid10032244 The }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Rules of the Game}{\i\fs24\insrsid10032244  }{\fs24\insrsid10032244 (Le Regle de Jeu)
\par B.  Making the list for the first time is Chris\rquote s favorite musical, which features Gene Kelly\rquote s outstanding pas de deux with Cyd Charisse in the \'93Gotta Dance\'94 number.  The title song features Kelly getting extraordinarily wet.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Singin\rquote  in the Rain}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par C.  This Hitchcock film features Jimmy Stewart as Scottie Ferguson, who begins following Madeline, played by Kim Novak, after retiring from the police force after nearly falling to his death from a building.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Vertigo}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par \tab 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9840900 {\fs24\insrsid4878998 15.  }{\fs24\insrsid9840900\charrsid9840900 Answer the following on ideal solutions FTPE.
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9840900 A. }{\fs24\insrsid9840900\charrsid9840900 A solution will boil when this quantity matches the external pressure. Henry's law states that its value for a solute is proportional to the solute's mole fraction.
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9840900 \tab A.}{\fs24\insrsid9840900\charrsid9840900  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9840900\charrsid9840900 vapor pressure}{\fs24\insrsid9840900\charrsid9840900 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9840900 B. }{\fs24\insrsid9840900\charrsid9840900 
The lowering of vapor pressure is, together with osmotic pressure, boiling pont elevation, and freezing point depression, one of these properties which depends only on the number of solute particles, not their identity.
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9840900 \tab A.}{\fs24\insrsid9840900\charrsid9840900  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9840900\charrsid9840900 colligative}{\fs24\insrsid9840900\charrsid9840900  properties}{\b\fs24\insrsid9840900\charrsid9840900 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9840900 C. }{\fs24\insrsid9840900\charrsid9840900 Ideal solutions obey this law, the basis of the colligative properties, which states that the vapor pressure of a solvent is proportional to the solvent mole fraction.
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9840900 \tab A.}{\fs24\insrsid9840900\charrsid9840900  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9840900\charrsid9840900 Raoult's}{\fs24\insrsid9840900\charrsid9840900  law}{\b\fs24\ul\insrsid9840900\charrsid9840900 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 16.  Time to name that Scholastic philosopher FTPE!
\par A.  No dummy despite a later derivation from his name, this man was known in his lifetime as the \'93subtle doctor\'94 and wrote the }{\i\fs24\insrsid10032244 Tractatus on First Principles}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 .
\par \tab A.  John Duns }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Scotus}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par B.  This author of }{\i\fs24\insrsid10032244 Sic et Non}{\fs24\insrsid10032244  is probably better known for his relationship with a woman whose brothers made him pay for wooing her\endash and how!
\par \tab A.  Peter }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Abelard}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par C.  Considered the greatest German theologian of the middle ages, this man was the teacher of Thomas Aquinas.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Albertus Magnus}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par 17.  Name these colorful figures of the American Old West FTPE.
\par A.  This marshal in many towns in Kansas and the Arizona territory is most famous for fighting alongside his brother Virgil at the OK Corral.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Wyatt}{\fs24\insrsid10032244  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Earp}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par B.  A friend of Earp\rquote s, this man arrested the notorious bandit Dave Tudabaugh but retired to New York, where he became a well known sports writer and man about town.
\par \tab A.  Bat }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Masterson}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par C.  This man was killed by Jack McCall in Deadwood in North Dakota while playing cards.
\par \tab A.  William \'93Wild Bill\'94 }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Hickock}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 18.  Name these plays by Aeschylus from descriptions FTPE.
\par A.  Xerxes, leader of the titular people, and his wife Atossa are crestfallen by their defeat by the Greeks.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Persians}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par B.  In this part of the Oresteia the mad Orestes flees from the Furies, who are later renamed after Athena decides to acquit Orestes of his crimes.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Eumenides}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par C.  In this work the title character, imprisoned on a crag in Scythia, has a conversation with the human-turned-cow Io about how both Zeus\rquote s love and hate can cause suffering.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Prometheus Bound}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid4878998 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9840900 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid10032244 19.  Answer the following about who kills whom at Ragnarok FTPE.
\par A.  Thor will slay this giant creature though he will die in the effort.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Midgard Serpent}{\fs24\insrsid10032244  or }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Jormungand}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par B.  Odin will be killed by this ferocious wolf, though it will in turn be killed by his son, Vidar.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Fenrir}{\fs24\insrsid10032244  or }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Fenris}{\fs24\insrsid10032244  Wolf
\par C.  Tyr will kill and be killed by this terrible dog from hell.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10032244 Garm}{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid4878998 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9840900 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4878998 {\fs24\insrsid4878998 20.  }{\fs24\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998 Answer the following on failures of classical physics, FTPE.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4878998 \fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998 
10) According to the classical Rayleigh-Jeans law, blackbodies radiate an infinite amount of energy at high frequencies, an erroneous result given this name.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi720\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4878998 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid4878998 A.}{\fs24\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998 
ultraviolet catastrophe}{\fs24\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4878998 {\fs24\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998 10) The rate of advance of this planet's perihelion could not be explai
ned under Newtonian mechanics, giving early support to the general theory of relativity.
\par }{\fs24\insrsid4878998 \tab A.}{\fs24\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998 Mercury}{\b\fs24\ul\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998 10) The Gibbs paradox results from a faulty derivation of this quantity, which is equal to Boltzmann's constant times the natural log of the multiplicity.
\par }{\fs24\insrsid4878998 \tab A.}{\fs24\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998 entropy}{\b\fs24\ul\insrsid4878998\charrsid4878998 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid10032244\charrsid4878998 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid10032244 
\par }}