{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f35\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f41\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f42\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f44\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f45\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f46\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f47\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f48\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f49\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f391\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f392\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}{\f394\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f395\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f396\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}
{\f397\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}{\f398\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}{\f399\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Tahoma (Vietnamese);}{\f400\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Tahoma (Thai);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f35\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \ssemihidden \styrsid9136374 Balloon Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid6834653\rsid9136374\rsid10050474}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.3416;}{\info{\author cborglum}
{\operator cborglum}{\creatim\yr2003\mo11\dy7\hr10\min53}{\revtim\yr2003\mo11\dy7\hr11\min17}{\printim\yr2003\mo11\dy7\hr11\min17}{\version2}{\edmins23}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords2907}{\nofchars16570}{\*\company Valencia Community College}{\nofcharsws19439}
{\vern16453}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz936\notabind\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\subfontbysize\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot10050474 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24\lang4105\langfe1033\langnp4105\insrsid9136374 
 SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 Valencia Fall Invitational 2003
\par Champeenship Round!
\par Questions by CB and Amy Harvey with science by the Two Rajs
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 1.  The narrator says of this other character that his \'93infernal aforethought of ferocity [was such] that every dismembering or death that he caused was not wholly regarded as having been inflicted by an unintelligent agent.\'94
  Later, on a nighttime watch, the narrator describes the \'93silvery jet\'94 of water he shoots upward, which makes him seem like \'93some plumed and glittering god uprising from the sea.\'94
  Abnormal due to his whitish color, FTP name this cetacean who destroys the Pequod in a Melville novel.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Moby Dick}{\fs24\insrsid9136374  (acc. Mocha Dick; prompt on \'93white whale\'94)
\par 
\par 2.  Partly formulated by Ronald Reagan\rquote s Secretary of Defense, Caspar Weinberger, it has four central tenets: force should be used as a last resort; the public should generally support the action taken; if force must be u
sed, it must be overwhelming and total; and finally, a clear goal and exit strategy must be agreed upon before the action begins.  FTP name this doctrine articulated before the First Gulf War by the then-Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and current head
 of the State Department for whom it is named.
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Powell}{\fs24\insrsid9136374  Doctrine
\par 
\par 3.  Three molecules of NAD-plus are reduced to NADH each time around, and two hydrogens are added to FAD in step six.  Some stages in it are succinate, fumarate, and malate, and it beg
ins when acetyl coenzyme A is added to oxaloacetate.  Taking place in the mitochondria, FTP, name this 8-step cycle of aerobic respiration analyzed by a German-born scientist in the 1930s.
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Krebs cycle}{\fs24\insrsid9136374  or }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 citric acid cycle}{\fs24\insrsid9136374  or }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 tricarboxylic acid cycle}{\fs24\insrsid9136374  or }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 
TCA cycle}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 
\par 4.  Five figures are depicted seated at the table in the central foreground, including the real-life photographer Paul Sescau and the writer Edouard Dujardin.  In the background on the right the most celebrated of the Parisian quadrille da
ncers, La Goulue, faces away from the viewer, fixing her hair.  Most striking is the greenish face of May Milton staring out from the lower right of the painting.  Featuring the artist himself walking by with his cousin, FTP this is what 1895 work depicti
ng cabaret life by Henri Toulouse-Lautrec?
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 At the Moulin Rouge}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 
\par 5.  This generalized English term comprises semi-distinct peoples such as the Koorie, Murri, Nunga, and Palawa.  Probably arriving at their current home over 50,000 years ago by boat, they
 were devastated by diseases brought by colonists in the late 1700s, and often suffered violence, as in the Coniston Massacre of 1928 in which 60 were killed in the Northern Territory.  One well-known religious practice of some tribes covered by the term 
is the Dream-Time, as well as a spiritual coming-of-age ritual known in English as the walkabout.  Designating the female athletes Kathy Freeman and Evonne Goolagong, FTP what is this term that is used to refer to the indigenous peoples of Australia?

\par \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Aborigine}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid10050474 
\par 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9136374 6.   Matthew Arnold thought this contemporary of his wrote in the Romantic tradition, and that he had a \'93moderate talent . . . prevailed over by the world\rquote s multitudinousness.\'94  Early poems of his include \'93
Johannes Agricola,\'94 \'93Sordello\'94 and \'93Pauline,\'94 all published by 1840, while works from his mature period include \'93Andea Del Sarto\'94 and \'93Fra Lippo Lippi,\'94
 exemplary of the dramatic monologue he used so often, as in the better-known \'93Porphyria\rquote s Lover.\'94  Still, during most of his life, his wife\rquote s fame eclipsed his own.  FTP name this author of}{\i\fs24\insrsid9136374 
 The Ring and the Book}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 , \'93Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came\'94 and \'93My Last Duchess.\'94
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 R}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 obert }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Browning}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par \tab 
\par 7.  This element exists in several forms which all contain an icosahedral arrangement.  A 
compound of this element is mined in the Mojave Desert for use in water softeners and cleaning products.  The lightest of the metalloids, it is just above aluminum on the periodic table, in group 3A.  FTP, name this element with 5 protons in its nucleus, 
a key component of the mineral borax.
\par \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 boron}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 
\par 8.  The text of this composition was written by Charles Jennens, who had previously reworked Milton\rquote s }{\i\fs24\insrsid9136374 L\rquote Allegro}{\fs24\insrsid9136374  and }{\i\fs24\insrsid9136374 Il Pensoroso}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
 for the composer.  Written in a burst of inspiration in 24 days in 1741, it has three parts, with over 50 numbers.  It opens with the recitative \'93Comfort Ye,\'94
 with text adapted from Isaiah, in which the title figure offers solace to the inhabitants of Jerusalem.  FTP name this oratorio by George Friedrich Handel, the second part of which ends with the Hallelujah Chorus.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\insrsid9136374 The }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Messiah}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 
\par 9.  It began in 1947, taking its name from a range of mountains on the west of the Great Rift Valley, though some say its name was adapted from a Kikuyu war cry.  For a few years members terrorized th
ose loyal to the British colonial administration, killing and mutilating many.  By 1952, however, the group was in open revolt against the British, a fact the British used to unfairly round up thousands of Kenyans and place them in concentration camps.  F
TP name this Kenyan insurgency in which Jomo Kenyatta may or may not have been directly involved.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Mau-Mau }{\fs24\insrsid9136374 Rebellion
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10050474 {\fs24\insrsid9136374 10}{\fs24\insrsid9136374\charrsid10050474 .  }{\fs24\insrsid10050474\charrsid10050474 Little is known of his life}{\fs24\insrsid10050474 ,}{
\fs24\insrsid10050474\charrsid10050474  and his philosophy only survives in fragments of hi}{\fs24\insrsid10050474 s single main work \'93On Nature.\'94}{\fs24\insrsid10050474\charrsid10050474  Believing everything is balanced by opposites}{
\fs24\insrsid10050474 , }{\fs24\insrsid10050474\charrsid10050474 he held that nature is a unity and fire forms the basic mat}{\fs24\insrsid10050474 erial principle.  FTP}{\fs24\insrsid10050474\charrsid10050474  name t}{\fs24\insrsid10050474 his \'93
weeping philosopher,\'94 who famously stated,}{\fs24\insrsid10050474\charrsid10050474  \'93Upon those who step into the same rivers, different and ev}{\fs24\insrsid10050474 er different waters flow down.\'94}{\fs24\insrsid10050474\charrsid10050474 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10050474 {\fs24\insrsid10050474\charrsid10050474 \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10050474\charrsid10050474 Heraclitus
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 11.  A highlight of this movie is when the protagonist sings Roxy Music\rquote s \'93More Than This\'94 at a Karaoke bar.  Anna Faris plays an action movie star promoting a film called \'93
Midnight Velocity who meets the main character, Bob, who is a washed-up actor in town to film a whiskey ad.  Scarlett Johanssen plays the married young woman who begins an unusual relationship with Bob, played b
y Bill Murray.  FTP name this current movie set in Tokyo, the second film directed by Sofia Coppola.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Lost in Translation}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 12.  It was first proposed in 1885 by BJ Cigrand, a Wisconsin schoolteacher.  It soon was celebrated unofficially by many schools
 in order to instruct students about the history of the celebrated object, and in 1893 the superintendent of schools in Philadelphia, home of its creator, first made it a mandatory celebration.  Woodrow Wilson proclaimed it a national holiday in 1916, but
 it was not until 1949 that Harry Truman signed an act of congress designating June 14 as its official day.  FTP name this holiday, the \'93birthday\'94 of the Stars and Stripes.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Flag Day}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 
\par 13.  An Alfven wave is a transverse wave in this form of matter, and in a magneto-hydro-dynamic generator, this form of matter flows through a channel in a strong magnetic field.  Naturally occurring examples on Earth include St. Elmo\rquote 
s Fire, the Aurora Borealis, and lightning bolts.  Containing a large number of positive ions and free electrons, name, FTP, this form of matter which comprises up to 99% of the matter in the universe, including our Sun.
\par \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 plasma}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 
\par 14.  Some of this man\rquote s achievements include solving a cubic of the form x3 + a2x = b by using a pair of intersec
ting conic sections and creating the Jalali Calendar, which was more accurate than the Julian and almost as accurate as the Gregorian.  Though he traveled to Samarkand and Isfahan to continue his astronomical and mathematical studies, he remains best know
n for his achievements in another field.  Composer of the famous lines, \'93The moving finger writes, and having writ, moves on,\'94 FTP name this Persian author of the }{\i\fs24\insrsid9136374 Rubaiyat}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 .
\par \tab A. Omar }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Khayyam}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10050474 {\fs24\insrsid9136374 15. }{\fs24\insrsid10050474\charrsid10050474 During the drought he foretold, he was fed by ravens nea
r the stream Cherith.  Also a prophet in Islam, he denounced foreign cults and challenged 450 prophets of Baal to a contest on Mt. Carmel in which Baal was deaf to the cries of his prophets but Jehovah answered him by sending fire from heaven.  Later carr
ied up to heaven by a whirlwind}{\fs24\insrsid10050474 , FTP}{\fs24\insrsid10050474\charrsid10050474  name this Hebrew prophet and predecessor of Elisha who lived during the reign of Ahab.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10050474 {\fs24\insrsid10050474 \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid10050474\charrsid10050474 Elijah
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 16.  Its namesake fell to his death while trying to verify this mountain\rquote 
s height in 1857.  One can drive to within two-tenths of a mile of its summit, exiting directly off of the Blue Ridge Parkway.  Standing 6, 684 feet high, FTP name this tallest peak in the Black Mountains, also the tallest in North Carolina an
d east of the Mississippi.
\par \tab A.  Mt. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Mitchell}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par \tab \tab 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid10050474 17. Time for some fun with probability:  FTP, given a standard deck of 52 cards, what is the probability that in one draw you will pick}{\fs24\insrsid6834653  a face card?}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid6834653 \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid6834653\charrsid6834653 12/52}{\fs24\insrsid6834653  or }{\fs24\ul\insrsid6834653\charrsid6834653 6/26}{\fs24\insrsid6834653  or }{\fs24\ul\insrsid6834653\charrsid6834653 3/13}{\fs24\insrsid6834653 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 18.  She published her first short story, \'93Drenched in Light, \'93 in Opportunity Magazine in 1925.  Other short stories, like \'93The Gilded Six-Bits\'94 and \'93Spunk,\'94 followed, as did non-fiction works 
like Tell My Horse.  Her novels include Moses, Man of the Mountain and her one story focusing on white characters, Seraph on the Suwanee.  FTP name this African-American author of Jonah\rquote s Gourd Vine and Their Eyes Were Watching God.
\par \tab A. Zora Neale }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Hurston}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 
\par 19.  This compound can be made by removing two hydrogen chloride molecules from di-chloro-ethane.  An explosive gas, it is often dissolved in acetone for safer storage.  The addition of an oxygen or a methyl group allows it to burn as hot as 2800 degrees 
Celsius, making it useful for welding.  FTP, name this simplest alkyne with formula CHCH.
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 acetylene}{\fs24\insrsid9136374  or }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 ethyne}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 
\par 20.  In power 293 years, this dynasty saw little territorial expansion, though during its reign Cyprus and parts of Palestine were somet
imes annexed.  Epithets of some of its namesake rulers include Euergetes, Neos Dionysos, Lathyros, and Philadelphus.  After its founding in 323 BCE it had nearly constant struggles with the neighboring Seleucids which began with its founder, nicknamed 
\'93Soter.\'94  Ending in 30 BCE, FTP name this dynasty of Greek rulers of Egypt named for 11 of its rulers including its founder, a general under Alexander the Great.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Ptolemaic}{\fs24\insrsid9136374  Dynasty (acc. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Ptolemy}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 , I reckon)
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid9136374 Valencia Fall Invitational\endash Champeenship Round Boni
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 1. Answer the following about Voltaire\rquote s }{\i\fs24\insrsid9136374 Candide}{\fs24\insrsid9136374  FTPE.
\par A.  }{\fs24\insrsid6834653 Candide acquires this valet in South America.}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid6834653 \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid6834653\charrsid6834653 Cacambo}{\fs24\insrsid6834653 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9136374 B.  Candide experiences firsthand the awful devastation of the earthquake which really occurred in this country in 1755?
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Portugal}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par C.  This woman is Candide\rquote s great love.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Cunegonde}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 
\par 2. Answer the following about the California gold rush of the 19th century FTPE.
\par A.  Gold was discovered near a sawmill being built near what is now Sacramento for this man.
\par \tab A.  John }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Sutter}{\fs24\insrsid9136374  (acc. \'93Sutter\rquote s Mill\'94)
\par B.  More than half a million people descended on the area near Sutter\rquote s Mill, mostly in this year, leading to a famous nickname for miner immigrants.
\par \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 1849}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par C.  A large number of the miners in California left in 1853 to join the gold strike on the Fraser River at a location now in this Canadian province.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 British Columbia}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 
\par 3.  You have a pile of 100-ohm resistors.  Answer the following for 10 points each:
\par A.  If 3 of the resistors are placed in series in a circuit, what is the total resistance of the circuit?
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 300}{\fs24\insrsid9136374  ohms
\par B.  If 2 of the resistors are placed in parallel, and there are no other resistances in the circuit, what is the equivalent resistance?
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 50}{\fs24\insrsid9136374  ohms
\par C.  If you want an equivalent resistance of exactly 225 ohms in the circuit, what is the minimum number of 100-ohm resistors required?
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 6}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 
\par 4.  Name these figures from the Christian Old Testament FTPE.
\par A. This man was reluctant to impregnate his slain brother Er\rquote s wife Tamar and so spilled his seed on the ground, for which God took him out.
\par \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Onan}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par B. This guy traded his birthright to his brother Jacob for some pottage, which apparently is some sort of lentil stew.  Hope it was good.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Esau}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par C. This daughter of Jacob\rquote s was raped by a guy named Shechem, whose tribe mates were later circumcised and then slaughtered by her brothers.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Dinah}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid6834653 
\par }{\fs23\insrsid9136374 
\par }{\fs23\insrsid9136374 5.  }{\fs23\insrsid6834653 Answer the following about people in the race to replace Bob Graham FTPE.}{\fs23\insrsid9136374 
\par }{\fs23\insrsid6834653 A. This woman, the former Florida Secretary of State who ended the 2000 presidential recount and became the butt of jokes due to her plastering on of make-up, is likely to enter the race soon.
\par \tab A. Katherine }{\fs23\ul\insrsid6834653\charrsid6834653 Harris}{\fs23\insrsid6834653 
\par B. This former house member from Florida lives in Orlando and was one of the House Managers of Clinton\rquote s impeachment trial. }{\fs23\insrsid9136374 He lost to a Democrat in the election }{\fs23\insrsid6834653 for Florida\rquote s other senate seat
 in 200}{\fs23\insrsid9136374 2.}{\fs23\insrsid6834653 
\par }{\fs23\insrsid9136374 \tab A.  Bill }{\fs23\ul\insrsid9136374\charrsid9136374 McCollum}{\fs23\insrsid9136374 
\par C.  This is the Democrat and one-time space shuttle passenger who defeated McCollum and will be Florida\rquote s senior senator on Graham\rquote s retirement.
\par \tab A.  Bill }{\fs23\ul\insrsid9136374\charrsid9136374 Nelson}{\fs23\insrsid6834653 
\par }{\fs23\insrsid9136374 
\par 6. Answer the following about an Ayn Rand novel FTPE.
\par A.  This 1943 work features a young architect, unyielding in his aesthetic beliefs, the lover of Dominique Francon and antithesis of her husband, the wuss Peter Keating.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs23\ul\insrsid9136374 The Fountainhead}{\fs23\insrsid9136374 
\par B. This guy is the main character of Rand\rquote s }{\i\fs23\insrsid9136374 The Fountainhead}{\fs23\insrsid9136374 .
\par \tab A.  Howard }{\fs23\ul\insrsid9136374 Roark}{\fs23\insrsid9136374 
\par C.  Roark, like so many of Rand\rquote s characters, embodies the ideals of this philosophy of hers, which espoused capitalism and heroic individualism, though it too often sounds like a watered-down version of what today\rquote 
s neoconservatives are selling.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs23\ul\insrsid9136374 Objectivism}{\fs23\insrsid9136374 
\par 
\par 7.  Visual Bonus: Identify both the painter and title of these works FFPE.
\par A.  Hunters in the Snow by Pieter Breughel the Elder
\par B.  The Massacre at Chios by Eugene Delacroix
\par C.  Impression Sunrise by Claude Monet
\par 
\par 8.  Give the molecular geometry of these compounds, FTSNOP:
\par A.  F5P, methane
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs23\ul\insrsid9136374 tetrahedral}{\fs23\insrsid9136374 
\par B.  FTP, silicon hexafluoride
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs23\ul\insrsid9136374 octahedral}{\fs23\insrsid9136374 
\par C.  FTP, xenon tetrafluoride
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs23\ul\insrsid9136374 square planar}{\fs23\insrsid9136374 
\par D.  F5P, water
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs23\ul\insrsid9136374 bent}{\fs23\insrsid9136374 
\par \tab 
\par 9.  Answer the following about Byzantium FTPE.
\par A.  Ruling from 527-565, this emperor codified Roman law under the direction of the jurist Tribonian.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs23\ul\insrsid9136374 Justinian
\par }{\fs23\insrsid9136374 B.  Justinian consolidated his power after putting down this popular revolt involving the blue and green factions in 532.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs23\ul\insrsid9136374 Nika}{\fs23\insrsid9136374  Revolt
\par C.  Along with Narses, this military leader expanded the Byzantine Empire greatly with conquests in North Africa, Italy, and southern Spain.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs23\ul\insrsid9136374 Belisarius}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 \tab }{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9136374 10.  Name these important councils of the Catholic church for fifteen points each.
\par A. This 1417 Council was the largest Church meeting of medieval times and ended the Great Schism.  For entertainment on the side they invited John Hus to come over and then set him on fire!
\par \tab A.  Council of }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Constance}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par B. Held on and off from 1545 through 1563, this council addressed some of the criticisms of Luther and standardized the mass with the creation of the Tridentine Mass.
\par \tab A.  Council of }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Trent}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9136374 11. Identify the following literary works whose titles include references to pushing up daisies FSNOP..
\par A.  (15 pts.) This Frost poem is a mild argument between a farmer and his wife over whether to fire the sad, old farm employee, who dies before the farmer can ask him to stay on.
\par \tab A.  \'93The }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Death of the Hired Man\'94}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par B.  (10 pts.) The title character of this Cather work is French cleric Jean Latour who establishes a diocese in New Mexico.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Death Comes for the Archbishop}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par C.  (5 pts.)  The title character is Willy Loman, who kicks off before the end of the play.
\par \tab A.}{\i\fs24\insrsid9136374   }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Death of a Salesman}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 \tab 
\par 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9136374 12.  Provide these terms from economics FTPE.
\par A.  This is the practice of finding differences in the price of some good in two different markets and buying and selling nearly simultaneously to make a profit.
\par \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 arbitrage}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par B.  Derived from the word \'93chart,\'94 this term describes a group that works together in order to fix prices of a good.
\par \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 cartel}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par C.  This is the application of statistics and other mathematical models to economic or financial data.
\par \tab A. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 econometrics}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9136374 13.  Name these US Vice-Presidents who have something in common on a 15-5 basis.
\par A.  (15 pts.) VP under Polk, this man presided over senate debates on the Mexican War and Wilmot Proviso.
\par        (5 pts.)  A large city in Texas was named for him.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\faauto\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid9136374 \tab \tab A.  George M. }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Dallas}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid9136374 B.  (15 pts.)  This man served as VP under Roosevelt and had turned down the VP nomination under McKinley\endash had he accepted, he would\rquote ve become president on McKinley
\rquote s assassination.
\par        (5 pts.)   A small village in east-central Alaska named itself after this VP on his death in 1909.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\faauto\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid9136374 \tab \tab A.  Charles }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Fairbanks}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 
\par 14.  Answer the following about the research facility of CERN, for 10 points each:
\par A.  CERN is near what large city on the border of France and Switzerland, home to many international organizations?
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Geneva}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par B.  After an upgrade in 2007, CERN should be able to find what particle named for an English physicist, a particle which would give the mechanism by which other particles acquire mass?
\par \tab Answer: the }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Higgs}{\fs24\insrsid9136374  boson or }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Higgs}{\fs24\insrsid9136374  particle or }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Higgson}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par C.  While at CERN, Tim Berners-Lee invented this computing technology in 1989; his website calls it an \'93internet-based hypermedia initiative for global information sharing.\'94
\par \tab Answer: the }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 World Wide Web}{\fs24\insrsid9136374  (accept \'93www\'94)
\par 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9136374 15.  Answer the following about a certain hunting party FTPE.
\par A.  This nasty porker was unleashed by Artemis in its namesake region after King Oeneus failed to make an expected sacrifice to her.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Calydonian Boar}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par B.  This man, whose life was oddly tied to the existence of a certain log, eventually killed the Calydonian Boar and got into trouble by offering its pelt to a certain female.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Meleager}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par C.  The above-mentioned female, this huntress is better known for losing a footrace to Hippomenes when he tricked her by dropping golden apples in her path.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Atalanta}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9136374 16.  Answer these questions about the geography of Mexico FSNOP.
\par A.  First, for ten, this gulf separates the Baja peninsula from mainland Mexico.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Gulf of California}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par B.  Next, for five each, name the two countries that border Mexico on the south.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Guatemala}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 , }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Belize}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par C.  Finally, name the city that lies just across the Rio Grande from El Paso.
\par \tab A.  Ciudad }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Juarez}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par }{\fs24\insrsid9136374 17.   Answer the following about the works of Joseph Conrad FTPE.
\par A.  The title character of this Conrad novel spends most of his life trying to atone for his cowardice aboard the ship The Patna, which he finally does when he allows himself to be killed by tribal people.
\par \tab A.  }{\i\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Lord Jim}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par B.  This character narrates Lord Jim, as well as Heart of Darkness.
\par \tab A.  }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Marlow}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par C.  In Heart of Darkness, these are the last words of the white trader Kurtz.
\par \tab A.  \'93}{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 The Horror!  The Horror}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 !\'94
\par 
\par 18.  Name these Eastern European composers from works FTPE.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-5040\li5040\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\faauto\rin0\lin5040\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid9136374 A.  The Bartered Bride; Ma Vlast\tab \tab \tab A.  Bedrich }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Smetana}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 

\par B.  New World Symphony\tab \tab \tab \tab A.  Antonin }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Dvorak}{\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-5040\li5040\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\faauto\rin0\lin5040\itap0\pararsid9136374 {\fs24\insrsid9136374 C.  Duke Bluebeard\rquote s Castle; Microcosmos\tab \tab A.  Bela }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Bartok}{
\fs24\insrsid9136374 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid9136374 19.  Answer the following about electric fields, FTP each:
\par A.  At a distance d above an infinite uniformly charged plane, the electric field strength is 100 units.  What will be the field strength at distance 2d above the plane?
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 100}{\fs24\insrsid9136374  units
\par B.  At a distance d from a point charge, the electric field strength is 100 units.  What will be the field strength at distance 2d?
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 25}{\fs24\insrsid9136374  units
\par C.  At a distance d from an infinitely long wire with uniform charge density, the electric field strength is 100 units.  What is the field strength at distance 2d?
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 50}{\fs24\insrsid9136374  units
\par 
\par 20.  30-20-10 Name the philosopher from works.
\par A.  (30 pts.) The Science of Logic (1812)
\par B.  (20 pts.)  The Philosophy of Right (1821)
\par C.  (10 pts.)  The Phenomenology of Mind (1807); The Philosophy of History (1837)
\par \tab A.  GWF }{\fs24\ul\insrsid9136374 Hegel}{\insrsid9136374 
\par }}