{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f35\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f36\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}WP TypographicSymbols;}{\f37\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR;}
{\f39\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f40\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f42\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f43\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f44\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f45\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f46\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f47\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f389\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f390\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}
{\f392\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f393\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f394\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}{\f395\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}{\f396\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}
{\f397\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Tahoma (Vietnamese);}{\f398\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Tahoma (Thai);}{\f409\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR CE;}{\f410\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR Cyr;}
{\f412\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR Greek;}{\f413\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR Tur;}{\f414\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR (Hebrew);}{\f415\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR (Arabic);}
{\f416\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR Baltic;}{\f417\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman TUR (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f35\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \ssemihidden \styrsid8665245 Balloon Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid467980\rsid609530\rsid1141471\rsid1586329\rsid1596403\rsid1711228\rsid1732364\rsid1865298\rsid1977376
\rsid2249342\rsid2385294\rsid2454824\rsid2512238\rsid2580581\rsid2781513\rsid2819822\rsid2913657\rsid3032451\rsid3287434\rsid3356959\rsid3692695\rsid3809425\rsid3872317\rsid3883291\rsid4201415\rsid4325479\rsid4421964\rsid4616342\rsid4676770\rsid4718894
\rsid4849721\rsid5336031\rsid5530603\rsid5708853\rsid5773131\rsid5787963\rsid5968567\rsid6496548\rsid6707748\rsid6839931\rsid6896383\rsid7237577\rsid7239910\rsid7298406\rsid7358495\rsid7487983\rsid7498222\rsid7688160\rsid7801901\rsid7889782\rsid8063957
\rsid8087998\rsid8224385\rsid8413112\rsid8528448\rsid8609834\rsid8663185\rsid8665245\rsid8811521\rsid9242970\rsid9334216\rsid9372283\rsid9528909\rsid9649265\rsid9650025\rsid9659185\rsid9705425\rsid9860167\rsid10095546\rsid10228424\rsid10688465
\rsid10753497\rsid11235473\rsid11875433\rsid11953576\rsid12405987\rsid12720943\rsid12918123\rsid13311762\rsid13763830\rsid14316646\rsid14446309\rsid14494477\rsid14627337\rsid14770537\rsid14834467\rsid14843064\rsid15009868\rsid15029109\rsid15336704
\rsid15419076\rsid15733099\rsid15741171\rsid15931449\rsid16059918\rsid16132623\rsid16258181\rsid16480750\rsid16611235\rsid16659206\rsid16676620\rsid16740923}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.3416;}{\info{\title ISU Fall 2003 Round 3}{\author  }
{\operator cborglum}{\creatim\yr2003\mo10\dy10\hr12\min59}{\revtim\yr2003\mo11\dy7\hr8\min53}{\printim\yr2003\mo11\dy7\hr8\min53}{\version9}{\edmins91}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords3995}{\nofchars22772}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws26714}{\vern16453}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot16659206 \fet0\sectd 
\pgnrestart\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\header \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\kerning0\insrsid14627337 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\kerning0\insrsid14627337 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15419076 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15419076 Valencia Fall Invitational 2003}{\insrsid6839931 
\par }{\insrsid15419076 Round 9\emdash Questions by Matt C. of Iowa St. (edited for gentleness by CB)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid6839931 
\par }{\insrsid7801901 1)}{\insrsid6839931  The reader first meets her at a train station where she talks about sleeping in a cherry tree and \'93dreaming of marble halls.\'94
  Among her misadventures are breaking an ankle while walking the ridgepole of a house and a reenacting the \'93The Lady of Shalott\'94 with a leaky boat.  She immediately becomes \'93bosom friends\'94 with Diana Barry and despite an initial 
exchange of insults becomes close to town gossip Rachel Lynde.  However, it takes her five years to forgive Gilbert Blythe for calling her \'93Carrots.\'94  FTP name this orphan adopted by Matthew and Marilla Cuthber}{\insrsid9705425 
t, the title character of a Lucy Maud}{\insrsid6839931 . Montgomery novel.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid6839931\charrsid15419076 Anne of Green Gables}{\insrsid6839931  or }{\ul\insrsid6839931 Anne Shirley}{\insrsid6839931 .
\par 
\par }{\insrsid8413112 
\par }{\insrsid7801901 2)}{\insrsid6839931  On the victor\rquote s right Augustino Barbarigo anticipated the enemy\rquote s flanking movement and routed him.  However, on the left, Andrea Doria maneuvered so poorly that he was accused of treason and hi
s squadron was saved only by the timely arrival of Santa Cruz\rquote s reserve force which had earlier decided the fray in the center by rescuing the flagship }{\i\insrsid6839931 Real }{\insrsid6839931 and killing the enemy admiral, Ali Pasha.  The victor
\rquote s use of large, heavily-armed galleases in advance as floating fortresses signaled the end of traditional ga}{\insrsid15419076 lley warfare. FTP name this 1571}{\insrsid6839931 
 battle in which an Ottoman fleet was defeated by forces of the Holy League led by Don Jon. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid6839931 Lepanto}{\insrsid6839931 .
\par }{\insrsid7801901 
\par }{\insrsid8413112 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7801901 {\insrsid7801901 3) }{\insrsid8413112 It began forming over 200 million years ago when its highlands developed from rains falling on Gondwanaland. The first European to see
 it was Vincente Pinzon in 1500, and in 1540 Francisco de Orellana sailed from its tributary the Napo to its main body and named it for a tribe he saw, the Icamiabas, a fierce group of warriors whose name translates as \'93women without husbands.\'94
  FTP name this river which carries one-fifth of the fresh water in the world, the second longest on earth.}{\insrsid7801901 
\par }{\insrsid16676620 \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid16676620\charrsid8413112 Amazon}{\insrsid16676620  River
\par }{\insrsid7801901 
\par }{\insrsid8413112 
\par }{\insrsid9649265 4) It was discovered by Aaron B. Lerner at Yale in 1958 and has been extensively studied by Richard J. Wurtman.  Studie}{\insrsid2781513 s}{\insrsid9649265  have indicated that}{\insrsid10688465  it}{\insrsid9649265 
 may be helpful as an anti-oxidant and that it may even slow the growth of tumors.  Most stunningly one}{\insrsid11875433  study on rodents}{\insrsid9649265  showed that it caused a 20% increase in their lifespan. }{\insrsid11875433 
A derivative of tryptophan, it}{\insrsid2781513  is secreted by the pineal gland and is intricately involved in the body\rquote s circadian cycles.  FTP identify this hormone used to ease the affects of jet lag and to fall sleep quicker.}{\insrsid7801901 

\par }{\insrsid2781513 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid2781513\charrsid11875433 Melatonin}{\insrsid11875433  or }{\ul\insrsid11875433\charrsid11875433 N-acetyl-5methoxytryntamine}{\insrsid11875433 .}{\insrsid2781513 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid7801901  
\par }{\insrsid8413112 
\par }{\insrsid7801901 5)}{\insrsid6839931   With the help of Felipe Angeles he integrated artillery into his cavalry heavy forces and went on to win victories at Torreon, Ciudad Juarez, and Zacatecas.  His apogee occurred during the Aguascalie
ntes conference which his men dominated and where he split with Venustiano Carranza, his nominal commander during the campaign to depose Victoriano Huerta. However, he was soon defeated by the armies of Alvaro Obregon at Celaya and Agua Prieta and became 
incensed at the United States recognition of Carranza.  FTP name this Mexican bandit-soldier infamous for his raid on Columbus, New Mexico.
\par \tab Answer: Francisco \'93Pancho\'94 }{\ul\insrsid6839931 Villa}{\insrsid6839931 .
\par }{\insrsid15733099 
\par }{\insrsid8413112 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9705425 {\insrsid7801901 6)}{\insrsid6839931   }{\f37\insrsid9705425\charrsid13311762 Lisa Simpson}{\f37\insrsid9705425\charrsid13311762 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 61 \\f 
"WP TypographicSymbols" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f36\fs20}}}{\f37\insrsid9705425\charrsid13311762 s grandmother tells her that this 1960 novel is }{\f37\insrsid9705425\charrsid13311762 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 65 \\f "WP TypographicSymbols" \\s 10}{\fldrslt
\f36\fs20}}}{\f37\insrsid9705425\charrsid13311762 hardly . . . ninth grade level.}{\f37\insrsid9705425\charrsid13311762 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 64 \\f "WP TypographicSymbols" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f36\fs20}}}{\f37\insrsid9705425\charrsid13311762 
  A critical early event in the book takes place when a founding member of the Super Suicide Society falls from a tree, shattering his leg.  Later, after the protagonist}{\f37\insrsid9705425\charrsid13311762 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 61 \\f 
"WP TypographicSymbols" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f36\fs20}}}{\f37\insrsid9705425\charrsid13311762 s responsibility for his friend}{\f37\insrsid9705425\charrsid13311762 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 61 \\f "WP TypographicSymbols" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f36\fs20}}}{
\f37\insrsid9705425\charrsid13311762 s fall becomes commonly known, that friend re-injures the leg, improbably leading to his death.  FTP Gene regrets ever jostling the tree and making Phinny fall in what John Knowles novel?
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9705425 {\f37\insrsid9705425\charrsid13311762 A.  }{\i\f37\ul\insrsid9705425\charrsid13311762 A Separate Peace}{\f37\insrsid9705425\charrsid13311762 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid6839931 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid7801901 7)}{\insrsid6839931  }{\i\insrsid6839931 The Old King }{\insrsid6839931 by Georges Rouault shows how this movement\rquote s style could be used to express social concerns.  }{\i\insrsid6839931 The Paddock at Chantilly}{\insrsid6839931 
 by Raoul Dufy and }{\i\insrsid6839931 The Charing Cross Bridge}{\insrsid6839931  by Andre Derain are also exemplify this movement.  Another member, Maurice de Vlamink, said that he tried \'93to paint with [his] heart and [his] loins\'94
 and it was his work at the Salon d\rquote  Autonme of 1905 which caused Louis Vauxelles to utter the words which gave the group its name.  Attempting to portray emotional depth through the use of expressive brushwork and contrasting vivid colors, FTP
, identify his group headed by Henri Matisse, whose name means \'93Wild Beasts.\'94
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid6839931 Fauvists}{\insrsid6839931  or }{\ul\insrsid6839931 Fauvism}{\insrsid6839931 .
\par }{\insrsid10753497 
\par }{\insrsid9372283 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10753497 {\insrsid9659185 8) }{\insrsid10228424 The }{\insrsid4325479 seventh most abundant metal in E}{\insrsid10228424 arth}{\insrsid4325479 \rquote }{\insrsid10228424 s crust}{
\insrsid4325479 ,}{\insrsid10228424  this element also}{\insrsid6896383  composes .34 percent of the mass of the }{\insrsid7487983 human body.  I}{\insrsid10228424 t}{\insrsid6896383  is the most abundant}{\insrsid10228424  cation in intercellur fluids of
}{\insrsid7487983  human cells}{\insrsid10228424  }{\insrsid11235473 and, }{\insrsid10228424 t}{\insrsid6896383 ogether with sodium}{\insrsid11235473 ,}{\insrsid6896383  it regulates nerve impulses and keeps bodily water levels constant.  
It is used in glass manufacture when it i}{\insrsid8413112 s combined with carbonate to for}{\insrsid6896383 m potash}{\insrsid8413112 ,}{\insrsid6896383  and when combined with nitrate it makes saltpeter.  }{\insrsid9659185 
FTP identify this alkali earth metal with atomic number 19 and symbol K.}{\insrsid7801901 
\par }{\insrsid9659185 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid9659185\charrsid9659185 Potassium}{\insrsid9659185 .
\par }{\insrsid7801901 
\par }{\insrsid9372283 
\par }{\insrsid2454824 9) It was originally serialized by }{\i\insrsid2454824\charrsid2454824 The New Yorker}{\insrsid2454824  and was parodied in the pamphlet \'93The Desolate Year\'94 by the Monsanto Corporation.  It was sparked by a letter from }{
\i\insrsid2454824\charrsid2454824 Boston Post}{\insrsid2454824  journalist Olga Owens Huckins who was concerned birds dying and was backed by 55 pages of notes and a list of authorities who approved the text.  Its most famous p}{\insrsid14627337 
assage is the opening \'93A Fable f}{\insrsid2454824 or Tomorrow,\'94 in which the author tells of an a fictional American village where \'93a strange blight crept over}{\insrsid15009868 .}{\insrsid2454824 \'94  FTP identify th
is 1962 attack on chemical pesticides, especiall}{\insrsid15009868 y DDT, written by Rachel Carson}{\insrsid2454824 .}{\insrsid7801901 
\par }{\insrsid2454824 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid2454824\charrsid2454824 Silent Spring}{\insrsid2454824 .
\par }{\insrsid7801901 
\par }{\insrsid9372283 
\par }{\insrsid7801901\charrsid2454824 10)}{\insrsid10753497\charrsid2454824  }{\insrsid9705425 He left his native Odense for the big city in 1819 to try his hand at writing plays, of which the first performed was Alfsol, though none of his 
30-plus plays has been translated.  His lack of success spurred him to try different publishing avenues, like travel writing}{\insrsid9372283  and most successfully, adaptations of folk stories like \'93The Ice Maiden\'94 and original children\rquote 
s tales like \'93The Fir Tree\'94 and \'93The Red Shoes.\'94  FTP name this Dane, author of beloved children\rquote s works like \'93The Little Mermaid\'94 and \'93The Ugly Duckling.\'94}{\insrsid10753497 
\par }{\insrsid9372283 \tab Answer:  Hans Christian }{\ul\insrsid9372283\charrsid9372283 Andersen}{\insrsid9372283\charrsid2454824 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid10753497 
\par }{\insrsid9372283 
\par }{\insrsid7801901 11)}{\insrsid6839931   Medieval one}{\insrsid10688465 s included Raimbaud of Auvergne and}{\insrsid6839931  William of Paler}{\insrsid7801901 ne while Peter Stubbe of Bedburg was perhaps the most famous 16th century one}{\insrsid6839931 
.  In his eighth ecologue Virgil said that Moeris used herbs from Pontus to become one.  In Norse myth Sigmund and his son Sinfiotli nearly kil}{\insrsid7801901 led each other while fighting in the form of}{\insrsid6839931  these creatures.  In Gree}{
\insrsid7801901 ce}{\insrsid6839931 
 they were most associated with Arcadia: Damarchos an Olympic boxer from there was supposed to be one and Zeus turned their king Lycaon into one after he fed him human flesh.  FTP identify this legendary creature associated with Lon Cheney Jr., full m
oons and silver bullets.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid6839931 Werewolf}{\insrsid6839931 . (accept lycanthropes and prompt on wolf}{\insrsid10688465  or wolf man}{\insrsid6839931 ).
\par 
\par }{\insrsid9372283 
\par }{\insrsid7801901 12)}{\insrsid6839931  T}{\insrsid4325479 he t}{\insrsid6839931 itle is the same. The first was a poem written as an epistle to the Pisones and may have been given its title by Quintilian.  Among its highlights are the author\rquote 
s explanation that although he often \'93strives to be concise,\'94 he \'93proves obscure\'94 and his advice that \'93the wood-born satyr\'94 should not attempt \'93amorous verses, as if bred at court.\'94 The second, published in 1926, asserts that \'93
all the history of grief\'94 could be expressed by \'93An empty doorway and a maple leaf\'94 and ends with the lines \'93a poem should not mean/ But be.\'94 FTP identify these poems by Horace and Archibald MacLeish whose title is Latin for \'93
Art of Poetry.\'94
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid6839931 Ars Poetica}{\insrsid6839931  (accept \'93Art of Poetry\'94 before \'931926\'94).
\par }{\insrsid4325479 
\par }{\insrsid9372283 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid8413112 
\par }{\insrsid2454824 13}{\insrsid8413112 ) }{\insrsid3356959 Born in 1972, at eight he won a starring role in the PBS kids show }{\i\insrsid3356959\charrsid3356959 The Voyage of Mimi}{\insrsid3356959 .  Two current projects include the upcoming }{
\i\insrsid3356959\charrsid3356959 Paycheck}{\insrsid3356959 , in which he\rquote ll co-star with Uma Thurman in a film directed by John Woo, and }{\i\insrsid3356959\charrsid3356959 Glory Road}{\insrsid3356959 , a TV movie in which he\rquote 
ll play basketball coach Don Haskins.  His first big-screen role came when he played O\rquote Bannion in Richard Linklater\rquote s }{\i\insrsid3356959\charrsid3356959 Dazed and Confused}{\insrsid3356959 .   Though he also starred in }{
\i\insrsid3356959\charrsid3356959 Chasing Amy}{\insrsid3356959 , his big fame came when he played second banana in the film he co-wrote with Matt Damon, }{\i\insrsid3356959\charrsid3356959 Good Will Hunting}{\insrsid3356959 
.  FTP name this on-again, off-again Beau of J-Lo.}{\insrsid12918123 
\par }{\insrsid3356959 \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid3356959\charrsid3356959 B}{\insrsid3356959 en }{\ul\insrsid3356959\charrsid3356959 Affleck}{\insrsid3356959 
\par }{\insrsid7801901 
\par }{\insrsid15931449 14) The dark streaks seen near}{\insrsid3692695  it are caused by geysers throwing up sooty debris which is then }{\insrsid15931449 blown downwind in its}{\insrsid3692695  thin nitrogen atmosphere.  It is compo}{\insrsid15931449 
sed of roughly 75% rock and 25% }{\insrsid3692695 ice and has very active internal heating.  With a surface temp of 37 Kelvin it is the coldest known spot in the solar system.  }{\insrsid15931449 Slightly smaller than Europa, i}{\insrsid3692695 
t also has extreme seasons as the sun can be directly overhead as far from the poles as 50 degrees North or South Latit}{\insrsid12405987 ude.  Scientists assert that  it was}{\insrsid3692695  formed outside of its planet}{\insrsid12405987 \rquote s}{
\insrsid3692695  }{\insrsid12405987 orbit and later captured in order to explain}{\insrsid3692695  its retrograde motion.  FTP identify this largest satellite of Neptune.}{\insrsid7801901 
\par }{\insrsid3692695 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid3692695\charrsid12405987 Triton}{\insrsid3692695 .
\par }{\insrsid6839931 
\par }{\insrsid7801901 15)}{\insrsid6839931  Plutarch said that he composed a summary of Polybius on the eve of the battle of Pharsalus.  Cicero once censured him for money-lending while in Cy}{\insrsid1586329 p}{\insrsid6839931 
rus and this man criticized Cicero for backing Octavian against Antony shortly after Julius Caesar\lquote s assassination. He had become governor of Cisalpine Gaul and then praetor of the city of Rome during Caesar\rquote 
s dictatorship despite siding with Pompey during the Civil War.  His maternal uncle was Cato the Younger and his mother, Servilia, was Caesar\rquote s }{\insrsid10688465 longtime }{\insrsid6839931 mistress.  FTP identify }{\insrsid1586329 t}{
\insrsid6839931 his loser of the battle of Phillipi the ringleader of Caesar\rquote s assassination along with Cassius.
\par \tab Answer: Marcus Junius }{\ul\insrsid6839931 Brutus}{\insrsid6839931 . 
\par }{\insrsid15733099 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15733099 {\insrsid7801901 16)}{\insrsid15733099  Throu
ghout this novel the narrator propounds the virtues of line marriages best exemplified by his own, the Davis family.  The action escalates when, after the death of Shorty Mkrum at a meeting in Stilyagi Hall, the four protagonists meet in Room L of Raffles
 
and make Adam Selene Chairman of a revolutionary movement which culminates in the bombing of earth with two large catapults.  The theme of libertarianism is present throughout the book best seen in the slogan TANSTAAFL.  FTP identify this novel in which B
ernardo de La Paz, Wyoming Knott, Manuel O\lquote Kelly, and Mike the sentient computer, lead a lunar revolt, written by Robert Heinlein.
\par \tab Answer: The }{\ul\insrsid15733099 Moon is a Harsh Mistress}{\insrsid15733099 .
\par }{\insrsid14834467 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid14834467 {\insrsid7801901 17)}{\insrsid14834467  Among the characters are \'93Lawyer\'94 Frazier who sells divorce papers for an unmarried woman and Jake, a fisherman who sings \'93
A Woman is a Sometime Thing.\'94  Others include Serena, who sings \'93My Man is Gone Now\'94 at the wake for her husband Robbins and Crown, his murderer, who sings \'93 A Red-Headed Woman\'94 and is eventually killed for his invo
lvement in a love triangle with the title characters.  It ends when the male lead leaves on a goat cart to find the female lead whom he believes has left for New York with Sportin\rquote 
 Life.  FTP name this opera set in Catfish Row and featuring the song \'93Summertime\'94 composed by George Gershwin.
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid14834467 {\insrsid14834467 Answer: }{\ul\insrsid14834467\charrsid9860167 Porgy and Bess}{\insrsid14834467  [accept just Porgy before first song (as this was the name of Dubose

\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid14834467 {\insrsid14834467 Heyward novel it was based on)]
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15733099 {\insrsid14834467 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid15733099 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15733099 {\insrsid7801901 18)}{\insrsid15733099  Clarence Darrow chaired a review board which determined that it was dominated by big business. It used the slogan \'93We do our part
\'94 and the symbol of a bald eagle in a successful propaganda campaign but came to an end with the \'93sick-chicken\'94 decision in Schecter Poultry Corp. v U.S. when it was declared unconstitutional.  It created over 500 cod
es of fair practice for different industries which set limits on working hours, created minimum wages, and fixed prices.  FTP identify this New Deal entity headed by Hugh S. Johnson and created in a similarly named 1933 bill which has nothing to do with C
harlton Heston.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid15733099 N}{\insrsid15733099 ational }{\ul\insrsid15733099 R}{\insrsid15733099 ecovery }{\ul\insrsid15733099 A}{\insrsid15733099 dministration.
\par }{\insrsid7801901 
\par }{\insrsid4325479 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid3356959 
\par }{\insrsid7298406 19) In 1930 banks of them were used by Cockcraft and Watson in  the first atom smasher.  Although Edwald Von Kliest made the first one, its invention is usually attributed to Peter Von Musschenbr
oek and it is named for the Dutch University where he worked.   It consists of a connected rod, chain, and stopper which is placed in a plastic or glass jar coated on both the inside and outside with metal foil.  Rarely used now, they were called condense
rs but in actuality were the first capacitors.  FTP identify this early apparatus used to collect and discharge electricity.}{\insrsid7801901 
\par }{\insrsid7298406 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid7298406\charrsid7298406 Leyden Jar}{\insrsid7298406 .
\par }{\insrsid2913657 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2913657 {\insrsid7801901 20)}{\insrsid2913657  Recently adherents to this religion in Canada have been criticized for using tables and chairs in their te
mples.  It emphasizes good conduct over blind ritual, prohibits idol worship, advocates a life of honest work rather than ascetiscim, and posits a single, formless deity which has many names.  Believed by historians to be associated with the Bhakti moveme
nt of Hinduism and Sufi branch of Islam, its symbol is the Khandra and more strict followers abide by the five K\rquote 
s.  Its holy book is the Adi Granth and its spiritual center is the Golden Temple in Amritsar.  FTP identify this religion centered in the}{\insrsid4325479  Punjab and founded by Guru Nana}{\insrsid2913657 k.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid2913657\charrsid4421964 Sikh}{\insrsid2913657 ism.
\par }{\insrsid9334216 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9705425 {\insrsid9705425 21) His first novel, about Hugh Bart\rquote s trials in the post-bellum south entitled }{\i\insrsid9705425 Tournament}{\insrsid9705425 ,}{\i\insrsid9705425 
 }{\insrsid9705425 was received coldly while other novels including }{\i\insrsid9705425 Love in a Dry Season}{\insrsid9705425 , }{\i\insrsid9705425 Jordan County}{\insrsid9705425 , and }{\i\insrsid9705425 Follow Me Down }{\insrsid9705425 
have drawn comparisons with fellow Mississippian William Faulkner.  He dealt with race issues in his novel about rednecks kidnapping a black youth, }{\i\insrsid9705425 September, September}{\insrsid9705425 , and his novella }{
\i\insrsid9705425\charrsid15419076 Shiloh}{\insrsid9705425  details that battles furious fighting.  FTP, name this author of the three-volume }{\i\insrsid9705425 The Civil War: A Narrative }{\insrsid9705425 
who received hundreds of marriage proposals after appearing as a commentator in Ken Burns Civil War documentary.
\par \tab Answer: Shelby }{\ul\insrsid9705425 Foote}{\insrsid9705425 .}{\insrsid9334216 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2913657 {\insrsid9334216 
\par }{\insrsid4325479 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4325479 {\insrsid4325479 Valencia Fall Invitational 2003\emdash Round 9 boni}{\insrsid9334216 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2913657 {\insrsid9334216 
\par Bonus 1: }{\insrsid14770537 Identify the following about English prose works of the 17}{\super\insrsid14770537\charrsid14770537 th}{\insrsid14770537  century FTPE.
\par A. This Dean of St. Paul\rquote s wrote the tract }{\i\insrsid14770537\charrsid14770537 Pseudo-Martyr}{\insrsid14770537  trying to get Roman Catholics to take oath of allegiance but is better known for }{\i\insrsid14770537\charrsid14770537 
Devotions Upon Emergent Occasions}{\insrsid14770537  and other sermons.
\par \tab Answer: John }{\ul\insrsid14770537\charrsid14770537 Donne}{\insrsid14770537 .
\par B. Consisting mostly of a dialogue between Venator and Piscator this 1653 Izaak Walton work about fishing is usually read as an allegorical protest of Parliamentary and Cromwellian rule.
\par \tab Answer: The }{\ul\insrsid14770537\charrsid14770537 Complete Angler}{\insrsid14770537  or the }{\ul\insrsid14770537\charrsid14770537 Compleat Angler}{\insrsid14770537 .
\par C. The title of this 1643 classic defense of free speech by recalls the speeches of Isocrates and is subtitled \'93A Speech of Mr. John Milton for the Liberty of Unlicensed Printing, To the Parliament of England.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid14770537\charrsid14770537 Areopagitica}{\insrsid14770537 .
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15733099 {\insrsid2913657 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9705425 {\insrsid5708853 Bonus 2: }{\insrsid9705425\charrsid1141471 
Answer the following about Sparta FTPE.
\par A.  Legend has it that this man was the Spartan lawgiver and created the legal and political systems it observed for centuries.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9705425 {\insrsid9705425\charrsid1141471 A.  }{\ul\insrsid9705425\charrsid1141471 Lycurgos

\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9705425 {\insrsid9705425\charrsid1141471 
B.  Usually conquered people from nearby and their descendants, these were the Spartan serfs.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9705425 {\insrsid9705425\charrsid1141471 A.  }{\ul\insrsid9705425\charrsid1141471 helots

\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9705425 {\insrsid9705425\charrsid1141471 C.  Sparta led this league of Greek city states.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9705425 {\insrsid9705425\charrsid1141471 A.  }{\ul\insrsid9705425\charrsid1141471 
Peloponnesian}{\insrsid9705425\charrsid1141471  League
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15733099 {\insrsid16059918 
\par }{\insrsid16258181 Bonus 3: Identify things related to a concept in physics.
\par A. }{\insrsid4201415 First give the name for an object which perfectly absorbs radiation at all wavelengths.}{\insrsid16258181 
\par }{\insrsid4201415 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid4201415\charrsid4201415 Blackbody}{\insrsid4201415 .
\par B. This laws relates temperature to the wavelength at which radiation from a blackbody is brightest.  It states that lambda ma}{\insrsid9705425 x is equal to a constant over Temperature.  Essentially}{\insrsid4201415 , bluer is hotter and red cooler.

\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid4201415\charrsid4201415 Wien}{\insrsid4201415 \rquote s Law.
\par C. This classical law approximates the energy density of blackbody radiation for a specific wavelength by counting the number of standing waves in the body.  It only holds for long wavelengths although Planck revised it to apply to short wavelengths.

\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid4201415\charrsid4201415 Rayleigh-Jeans}{\insrsid4201415  Law.
\par 
\par Bonus 4: Identify these tight ends which don\rquote t belong to Mike Falk}{\insrsid4325479  (note:  Mike\rquote s a player at ISU\emdash the TD makes no comment regarding his tight end)}{\insrsid4201415  FTPE.
\par A. He led all }{\insrsid4325479 NFL }{\insrsid4201415 Tight Ends in yardage and receptions last year with the Giants in his rookie season.  He caused waves in the off-season by calling Bill Parcells a \'93qui}{\insrsid4325479 t}{\insrsid4201415 ter\'94
 and a \'93homo.\'94
\par \tab Answer: Jeremy }{\ul\insrsid4201415\charrsid5968567 Shockey}{\insrsid4201415 .
\par B. }{\insrsid5968567 The best tight end in most fantasy circles last year, this man}{\insrsid4201415  became the go-to guy with the Baltimore Ravens last year finishing second among tight end in yardage and receptions.
\par }{\insrsid5968567 \tab Answer: Todd }{\ul\insrsid5968567\charrsid5968567 Heap}{\insrsid5968567 .
\par C. Last year this four-time pro-bowler and former University of California basketball star struggled somewhat in the Dick Vermeil led Chief\rquote s offense although he tied for the lead among tight ends in touchdowns with seven.
\par \tab Answer: Tony }{\ul\insrsid5968567\charrsid5968567 Gonzalez}{\insrsid5968567 .
\par }{\insrsid4325479 
\par }{\insrsid5968567 Bonus 5: Identif}{\insrsid9705425 y these playwright}{\insrsid5968567 s from around the world FTPE.
\par A. }{\insrsid9705425 This Irishman wrote Waiting for Godot.}{\insrsid5968567 
\par }{\insrsid9705425 \tab Answer:  Samuel }{\ul\insrsid9705425\charrsid9705425 Beckett}{\insrsid9705425 
\par }{\insrsid5968567 B. The winner of the 1986 Nobel this Nigerian dramatist is the author of }{\i\insrsid5968567\charrsid5968567 The Trials of Brother Jero}{\insrsid5968567 , }{\i\insrsid5968567\charrsid5968567 Death and the King\rquote s Horseman}{
\insrsid5968567 , and }{\i\insrsid5968567\charrsid5968567 Kongi\rquote s Harvest}{\insrsid5968567 .
\par \tab Answer: Wole }{\ul\insrsid5968567\charrsid5968567 Soyinka}{\insrsid5968567 .
\par C. This 17}{\super\insrsid5968567\charrsid5968567 th}{\insrsid5968567  century Frenchman wrote the }{\i\insrsid5968567\charrsid5968567 Comical History of the States and Empires of the Sun}{\insrsid5968567  and the }{\i\insrsid5968567\charrsid8528448 
Comical History of the States and Empires of the Moon}{\insrsid5968567  but is best known as the inspiration for a}{\insrsid4325479 n Edmund}{\insrsid5968567  Rostand work.
\par \tab Answer}{\insrsid5968567\charrsid9242970 : }{\ul\insrsid5968567\charrsid5968567 Cyrano de Bergerac}{\insrsid5968567 , Savinien. 
\par }{\insrsid7237577 
\par Bonus 6:  Identify the following about the geography of Ukraine.
\par A. }{\insrsid609530 This main river of Ukraine passes though Kiev.  It rises in the Voldai Hills and flows to the Black Sea.}{\insrsid7237577 
\par }{\insrsid609530 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid609530\charrsid609530 Dnieper}{\insrsid609530 .
\par B. }{\insrsid9372283 The Pripyet Marshes are on Ukraine\rquote s border with this nation with capital at Minsk.}{\insrsid609530 
\par }{\insrsid9372283 \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid9372283\charrsid9372283 Belarus}{\insrsid9372283 
\par }{\insrsid609530 C. At 2,061 meters Hora Hoverla is the hightest peak in Ukraine.  FTP, to what mountain range }{\insrsid9372283 that runs into Romania, Poland and the Czech Republic does it belong?}{\insrsid609530 
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid609530\charrsid609530 Carpathians}{\insrsid609530  or the Ukrainian }{\ul\insrsid609530\charrsid609530 Carpathians}{\insrsid609530  or the Eastern }{\ul\insrsid609530\charrsid609530 Carpathians}{\insrsid609530 .
\par }{\insrsid8528448 
\par }{\insrsid12720943 Bonus 7: Although Warren G. Harding\rquote s presidency wasn\rquote t anything to brag about some of his cabinet members were quite capable.  Identify some of them from clues FTE.
\par A. This secretary of state for Harding and Coolidge arranged the Washington Naval Conference.  He had previously been governor of New York and would later become Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.
\par \tab Answer: Charles Evans }{\ul\insrsid12720943\charrsid12720943 Hughes}{\insrsid12720943 .
\par B. This graduate of Iowa State Agriculture College was secretary of Agriculture and author of }{\i\insrsid12720943\charrsid12720943 Our Debt and Duty to the Farmer}{\insrsid9372283 .  His son of the same f}{\insrsid1865298 irst and last name would become}
{\insrsid9372283  VP for FDR\rquote s third term and run for president as a progressive in 1948.}{\insrsid12720943 
\par \tab Answer: Henry Cantwell }{\ul\insrsid12720943\charrsid12720943 Wallace}{\insrsid12720943 .
\par C. Also an Iowa native, this secretary of commerce for Harding and Coolidge held so much sway he was referred to as \'93secretary for domestic affairs.\'94 He would go on to become President of the U.S.}{\insrsid9372283 
 and get blamed for the Great Depression.}{\insrsid12720943 
\par \tab Answer: Herbert }{\ul\insrsid12720943\charrsid12720943 Hoover}{\insrsid12720943 .
\par 
\par }{\insrsid2512238 Bonus 8: Identify these artists of the early Renaissance from clues FTPE.
\par A.}{\insrsid9372283  This sculptor of an early bronze David is also known for his Zuccone, or \'93Pumpkin Head}{\insrsid8663185 .}{\insrsid9372283 \'94}{\insrsid8663185 
\par }{\insrsid9372283 \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid9372283\charrsid9372283 Donatello}{\insrsid9372283 
\par }{\insrsid8663185 B. A onetime apprentice to Filippo Lippi this painter\rquote s masterpieces include }{\i\insrsid8663185\charrsid8663185 Primavera}{\insrsid8663185  and }{\i\insrsid8663185\charrsid8663185 The Birth of Venus}{\insrsid8663185 .
\par \tab Answer: Sandro }{\ul\insrsid8663185\charrsid8663185 Botticelli}{\insrsid8663185 .
\par C. A native of Padua this painter later worked for the Gonzaga family in Mantua.  His works include }{\i\insrsid8663185\charrsid8663185 The Agony of the Garden}{\insrsid8663185 , }{\i\insrsid8663185\charrsid8663185 Triumph of Caesar}{\insrsid8663185 
, and }{\i\insrsid8663185\charrsid8663185 the Dead Christ}{\insrsid8663185 .
\par \tab Answer: Andrea }{\ul\insrsid8663185\charrsid8663185 Mantegna}{\insrsid8663185 .
\par }{\insrsid5336031 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9372283 {\insrsid5336031 Bonus 9}{\insrsid5336031\charrsid9372283 : }{
\f37\insrsid9372283\charrsid9372283 Stuff about Poseidon FTPE.
\par A.  Poseidon vied with Athena to be the main god of Athens; her prize of the olive tree was judged better than what creature that Poseidon created for the Athenians?
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9372283 {\f37\insrsid9372283\charrsid9372283 A. }{\f37\ul\insrsid9372283\charrsid9372283 
horse}{\f37\insrsid9372283\charrsid9372283 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9372283 {\f37\insrsid9372283\charrsid9372283 B.  This three-pronged spear is Poseidon}{
\f37\insrsid9372283\charrsid9372283 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 61 \\f "WP TypographicSymbols" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f36\fs20}}}{\f37\insrsid9372283\charrsid9372283 s trademark weapon.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9372283 {\f37\insrsid9372283\charrsid9372283 A. }{\f37\ul\insrsid9372283\charrsid9372283 
trident}{\f37\insrsid9372283 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9372283 {\f37\insrsid9372283 
C.  Poseidon gave a beautiful white version of one of these creatures holy to him to King Minos, which eventually became the love interest of his wife, Pasiphae.
\par \tab A. }{\f37\ul\insrsid9372283\charrsid9372283 bull}{\f37\insrsid9372283\charrsid9372283 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15733099 {\insrsid8528448 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid3287434 Bonus 10: Answer the following about a concept in chemistry FTPE.
\par A. My old chemistry textbook defines this term as \'93the energy change occurring when separated gaseous ions are packed together to form an ionic solid.\'94*
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid3287434\charrsid3287434 Lattice}{\insrsid3287434  Energy.                                 *(from Zumdahl 3}{\super\insrsid3287434\charrsid3287434 rd}{\insrsid3287434  edition).
\par B. Lattice energies are best estimated by viewing them as this series of reactions named for two German scientists.  The idea is to calculate the changes in energy and enthalpy that occur in each step as the elements involve}{\insrsid8063957 d}{
\insrsid3287434  form the ionic solid.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid3287434\charrsid3287434 Born-Haber}{\insrsid3287434  cycle or }{\ul\insrsid3287434\charrsid3287434 Born-Haber}{\insrsid3287434  analysis.
\par C. This law is closely related to the Born-Haber cycle and justifies its usage.  It asserts that because enthalpy is a}{\insrsid8063957  state change, t}{\insrsid3287434 he final change in enthalpy will be equal to the sum of the changes in ea
ch individual step}{\insrsid8063957  regardless of how many steps or which path is taken}{\insrsid3287434 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid3287434\charrsid3287434 Hess}{\insrsid3287434 \rquote s Law.}{\insrsid16740923 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9650025 {\insrsid16676620 
\par }{\insrsid7498222 Bonus 11:}{\insrsid15741171  Identify the following about old}{\insrsid9372283  Earth Patterns from clues for fifteen points each.}{\insrsid15741171 
\par A. About 120 mounds, including the enormous Monk\rquote s mound containing 22 million cubic feet of earth, are located within six miles of this old Amerindian town on the banks of the Mississippi near St. Louis.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid15741171\charrsid4718894 Cahokia}{\insrsid15741171 .
\par B. }{\insrsid4718894 Near the foothills of the 
Peruvian Andes lies this series of earth patterns consisting of various animal shapes and straight lines converging on central spots.  They were studied extensively by Maria Reiche and believed by Erich Von Danikan to be an airfield for alien ships.}{
\insrsid15741171 
\par }{\insrsid4718894 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid4718894\charrsid4718894 Nazca}{\insrsid4718894  Lines.
\par }{\insrsid7498222 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16676620 {\insrsid16676620 
Bonus 12:  Join clues to make a phrase. For example, if I were to ask for a seaside Matthew Arnold poem and a 1965 Frankie and Annette movie involving mermaids, bikers and cheesy songs you would answer \'93Dover Beach Blanket Bingo.\'94 You may 
have to omit a \'93the\'94 from the first one.  FTPE:
\par A. An SNL sketch and movie involving Mike Myers, Dana Carvey, and a cable access show and a Wordsworth poem rejecting the materialism of modern life.
\par \tab A. }{\ul\insrsid16676620\charrsid2819822 Wayne\rquote s World is too much With Us}{\insrsid16676620 
\par B. A Robert Frost poem reminding us that \'93good fences make good neighbors\'94 and a movie where Michael Douglas\rquote s Gordon Gekko tells us \'93Greed is good.\'94
\par \tab A. }{\ul\insrsid16676620\charrsid2819822 Mending Wall Street}{\ul\insrsid16676620\charrsid16676620 
\par }{\insrsid16676620 C. Soft Cell\rquote s 80s anthem for unhappy lovers and a T.S. Eliot poem where \'93the women come and go talking of Michelangelo\'94
\par \tab A. }{\ul\insrsid16676620\charrsid2819822 Tainted Love Song of J. Alfred Prufro}{\ul\insrsid1865298 c}{\ul\insrsid16676620\charrsid2819822 k}{\insrsid16676620\charrsid9528909 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9650025 {\insrsid14446309 
\par }{\insrsid5773131 
\par }{\insrsid3883291 Bonus 1}{\insrsid16676620 3}{\insrsid3883291 :}{\insrsid4616342  Parts of the Kidney}{\insrsid1711228  related to the nephron}{\insrsid4616342  FTPE}{\insrsid4718894 .}{\insrsid4616342 
\par A. }{\insrsid16132623 This part of the nephron contains the glomerulus which is the primary filtering device of the nephron.  After filtering, blood exi
ts through the efferent arteriole while waste product is moved out through the proximal convoluted tube.}{\insrsid4616342 
\par }{\insrsid16132623 \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid16132623\charrsid16132623 Bowman\rquote s Capsule}{\insrsid16132623  or }{\ul\insrsid16132623\charrsid16132623 Bowman\rquote s Space}{\insrsid16132623 .
\par B. Together }{\insrsid2249342 with the }{\insrsid16132623 convo}{\insrsid2249342 luted tubule this U-shaped tube with ascending and descending branches}{\insrsid16132623  make}{\insrsid2249342 s}{\insrsid16132623  }{\insrsid2249342 
up the renal tubule.  It carries urine out of the nephron}{\insrsid16132623 .
\par \tab Answer}{\ul\insrsid5773131 : Loop of He}{\ul\insrsid16132623\charrsid16132623 nle}{\insrsid16132623 .
\par C. This recess in the internal medulla of the kidney receives the waste}{\insrsid7239910 , via the ducts of Bellini,}{\insrsid16132623  from the Loop of Heinle}{\insrsid6496548  and funnels it into the renal pelvis}{\insrsid7239910 .}{\insrsid16132623 

\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid16132623\charrsid16132623 Calyx}{\insrsid16132623  or }{\ul\insrsid16132623\charrsid16132623 Calyces}{\insrsid16132623 .}{\insrsid7239910  (also accept Major or Minor Calyx as both are acceptable).}{\insrsid16132623 
\par }{\insrsid8609834 
\par }{\insrsid5773131 
\par }{\insrsid8609834 Bonus 1}{\insrsid16676620 4}{\insrsid8609834 :}{\insrsid4718894  }{\insrsid1596403 Identify the 20}{\super\insrsid1596403\charrsid1596403 th}{\insrsid1596403  century female philosophers }{\insrsid5773131 for 15 points each.}{
\insrsid1596403 
\par A. Her philosophical works include }{\i\insrsid1596403\charrsid467980 The Existential Political Myth}{\insrsid1596403  and }{\i\insrsid1596403\charrsid467980 Metaphysics as a Guide to Morals}{\insrsid1596403 .  However she is best known for the novels }{
\i\insrsid1596403\charrsid467980 Under the Net}{\insrsid1596403  and }{\i\insrsid1596403\charrsid467980 A Unofficial Rose}{\insrsid1596403  and for}{\insrsid5773131 
 having her slow decline from Alzheimers detailed in a book by her husband that became a movie.
\par }{\insrsid1596403 \tab Answer: Iris }{\ul\insrsid1596403\charrsid467980 Murdoch}{\insrsid1596403 .
\par }{\insrsid5773131 B}{\insrsid467980 . This long-time companion of Sartre won the Prix Gancourt for her novel }{\i\insrsid467980\charrsid467980 The Mandarins}{\insrsid467980  but is remembered for her groundbreaking }{\i\insrsid467980\charrsid467980 
The Second Sex}{\insrsid467980 .
\par \tab Answer: Simone de }{\ul\insrsid467980\charrsid467980 Beavoir}{\insrsid467980 .
\par }{\insrsid8609834 
\par }{\insrsid7358495 
\par }{\insrsid5773131 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5773131 {\insrsid8609834 Bonus 1}{\insrsid16676620 5}{\insrsid5773131 :  }{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105\langfe1033\langnp4105\insrsid5773131\charrsid1732364  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}
}{\fldrslt }}{\cf1\insrsid5773131\charrsid1732364 Stuff about a political economist FTPE.
\par A.  A curate of the Church of England, this man believed that increasing population would lead to eventual starvation for many.
\par \tab A. Thomas }{\ul\cf1\insrsid5773131\charrsid1732364 Malthus}{\cf1\insrsid5773131\charrsid1732364 
\par B.  In his second edition of his Essay on the Principle of Population, Malthus suggested five necessary checks on population growth; name any two FTPE (any order).
\par \tab A.  }{\ul\cf1\insrsid5773131\charrsid1732364 crime}{\cf1\insrsid5773131\charrsid1732364 , }{\ul\cf1\insrsid5773131\charrsid1732364 disease}{\cf1\insrsid5773131\charrsid1732364 , }{\ul\cf1\insrsid5773131\charrsid1732364 war}{
\cf1\insrsid5773131\charrsid1732364 , }{\ul\cf1\insrsid5773131\charrsid1732364 vice}{\cf1\insrsid5773131\charrsid1732364 , }{\ul\cf1\insrsid5773131\charrsid1732364 moral restraint}{\cf1\insrsid5773131\charrsid1732364  (any two\endash 
accept reasonable        synonyms/equivalents)}{\insrsid1977376\charrsid1732364 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9650025 {\insrsid8609834 Bonus 1}{\insrsid16676620 6}{\insrsid8609834 :}{\insrsid2385294  Identify some of the works of Joseph Haydn from clues FTPE}{\insrsid5530603 .}{
\insrsid2385294 
\par A. Regarded as one of the best pieces of the sturm und drang movement this symphony ends with the musicians stopping play and leaving one by one.  It was meant as message to Prince Esterhazy that the musicians wanted to return to their homes.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid2385294\charrsid2580581 Farewell}{\insrsid2385294  Symphony or Symphony 45.
\par B. Haydn\rquote s last twelve symphonies, 93-104, which include \'93The Surprise\'94 and \'93The Military\'94 were given this geographical name from w}{\insrsid5773131 h}{\insrsid2385294 ere they were performed from 1791-1794.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid2385294\charrsid2580581 London}{\insrsid2385294  Symphony.
\par }{\insrsid7358495 C. This symphony, Haydn\rquote s number 94, gets its nickname from the loud chord at the beginning of the second movement.}{\insrsid2385294 
\par }{\insrsid7358495 \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid7358495\charrsid7358495 Surprise}{\insrsid7358495  Symphony
\par }{\insrsid5773131 
\par }{\insrsid8609834 Bonus 1}{\insrsid16676620 7}{\insrsid8609834 : Identify the following authors associated with the writings of}{\insrsid5773131  2003 Nobel Laureate}{\insrsid8609834  J.M. Coetzee FTPE.
\par A}{\insrsid5773131 .  Coetzee hails from this nation, also home to 1991 Literature Nobel winner Nadine Gordimer.}{\insrsid8609834 
\par }{\insrsid5773131 \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid5773131\charrsid5773131 South Africa}{\insrsid8609834 
\par B. }{\insrsid15741171 In a 1987 novel Coetzee, writing in the postmodern and postcolonial trad}{\insrsid5773131 ition, revised a 1720 work  about a castaway written by this Scottish author,}{\insrsid15741171  adding a female protagonist, Susan Barton.}{
\insrsid8609834 
\par }{\insrsid15741171 \tab Answer: Daniel }{\ul\insrsid15741171\charrsid15741171 Defoe}{\insrsid15741171 . (the novel is called }{\i\insrsid15741171\charrsid15741171 Foe}{\insrsid15741171 ).
\par C. Coetzee\rquote s 1994 novel }{\i\insrsid15741171\charrsid14494477 Master of Petersburg}{\insrsid15741171  deals with this }{\insrsid7358495 real-life }{\insrsid15741171 novelist}{\insrsid4718894 \rquote }{\insrsid15741171 
s investigation into the death of this stepson Pavel.
\par \tab Answer: Fyodor }{\ul\insrsid15741171\charrsid15741171 Dostoevsky}{\insrsid15741171 .}{\insrsid5773131 
\par 
\par Bonus 1}{\insrsid16676620 8}{\insrsid8609834 :}{\insrsid7688160  Stuff about conic sections from clues FTPE.
\par A. This line, together with the focus,}{\insrsid7358495  is what defines a parabola, which}{\insrsid7688160  is the locus of points whose distance from the focus is proportional to the horizontal distance from this line.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid7688160\charrsid7688160 Directrix}{\insrsid7688160 .
\par B. This type of conic section is defined by encyclopedia.com as \'93the plane consisting of all points such that the difference between the distances from any point on the curve to the two foci is the same for all points.\'94  
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid7688160\charrsid7688160 Hyperbola}{\insrsid7688160 .
\par C. This Greek mathematician introduced the term hyperbola in his treatise, }{\i\insrsid7688160\charrsid14494477 On Conics}{\insrsid7688160 
.  He is also notable for his astronomical assertion that the planets revolved around the sun while the sun revolved the earth.
\par \tab Answer: Apollonius of }{\ul\insrsid7688160\charrsid7688160 Perga}{\insrsid7688160 .
\par }{\insrsid5773131 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5773131 {\insrsid16676620 Bonus 19}{\insrsid5773131 : Identify the people and places involved in the latter stages of the Hundred Years\rquote  War FTPE.
\par A. While marching to Calais after the siege of Harfluer, Henry V and a vastly outnumbered army of 6,000 men defeated the French in this pivotal 1415 battle.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid5773131\charrsid15336704 Agincourt}{\insrsid5773131 .
\par B. Referred to as the Dauphin and later as \'93The Well Served,\'94 this ruler, who was disinherited after the 1420 Treaty of Troyes, was later crowned King of France after Joan of Arc\rquote s successes.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid5773131\charrsid15336704 Charles VII}{\insrsid4676770 .}{\insrsid5773131 
\par C. This Duchy ruled by Philip the Good became practically independent after Troyes and allied itself with the English.  However, due to the resurgence of Charles it reconciled with the French King at the 1435 Treaty of Arras virtually ending the war.

\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid5773131\charrsid15336704 Burgundy}{\insrsid5773131 .
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid16740923 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16676620 {\insrsid16676620 Bonus 20: Bonus: Identify the poems with a (fairly) similar theme from lines for ten or for five if you need the authors.
\par A. (15) Since then 't is centuries; but each/ Feels shorter than the day/ I first surmised the horses' heads/ Were toward eternity. 
\par  (5) Emily Dickinson
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid16676620 Because I could not stop for death}{\insrsid16676620 .
\par B. (15) No mockeries now for them; no prayers nor bells;/Nor any voice of mourning save the choirs,-/ The shrill, demented choirs of wailing shells;/ And bugles calling for them from sad shires.
\par  (5) Wilfred Owen.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid16676620 Anthem for Doomed Youth}{\insrsid16676620 .
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid6839931 
\par }}