{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f209\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f210\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f212\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f213\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f214\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f215\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f216\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f217\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1388313\rsid8331747
\rsid10031710\rsid11893090\rsid15078183}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.6113;}{\info{\title Valencia Delta Burke Invitational 2005\'97Round 6}{\author Winter Park Campus}{\operator Winter Park Campus}{\creatim\yr2005\mo11\dy1\hr15\min51}
{\revtim\yr2005\mo11\dy1\hr15\min51}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords2988}{\nofchars17038}{\*\company Valencia Community College}{\nofcharsws19987}{\vern24699}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot11893090 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11893090 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid11893090\charrsid11893090 Valencia Delta Burke Invitational 2005\emdash Round 6
\par Questions by Raj Dhuwalia
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid11893090 
\par }{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 
1.  The initial defendant in his case was H.G. Cochran, who was replaced by the new head of the Florida Department of Corrections.  Found with $25.28, all in coins, he was convicted of breaking into a Panama City pool hall in 196
1, but the charge fell apart during his retrial, with Fred Turner as his lawyer.  This man had requested counsel in his original trial, which was denied, but the Supreme Court overturned his conviction in 1963.  FTP, name this man whose letters to the Sup
reme Court led to counsel being provided for all defendants, a man who thus escaped the clutches of Louie Wainwright.
\par \tab Answer:  Clarence Earl }{\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 Gideon}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11893090 {\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 2.  }{\insrsid11893090\charrsid11893090 A reverse Hoogsteen pair often forms between the A14 and U8 sites of this molecule, stabilizing a sharp
 turn in the D loop.  Its tertiary structure resembles the letter L, but in 2-D drawings, it is drawn with a cloverleaf shape.  Measuring about 75 base pairs long, it binds to the A and P sites of the ribosome, and its anticodon loop is opposite the 3-pri
me end, which accepts amino acids.  FTP, name this molecule which brings information for protein synthesis to the ribosome.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid11893090\charrsid11893090 tRNA}{\insrsid11893090\charrsid11893090  or }{\ul\insrsid11893090\charrsid11893090 transfer RNA}{\insrsid11893090\charrsid11893090  }{\insrsid11893090 
\par 
\par 3. }{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 
His more recent works include a 2001 addition to the Amon Carter Museum and a design for the Cathedral of Hope in Dallas.  His Pennzoil Towers are 36-story black trapezoids, and his A.T.&T. Tower in New York features a famous "Chippendale" top.  The winne
r of the first Pritzker Prize, he may be best known for translucent works like the Crystal Cathedral in California, or his famous Glass House in New Canaan, Connecticut.  FTP, name this co-designer of the Seagram Building who died at age 98 in January.

\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 \tab Answer:  Philip (Cortelyou) }{\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 Johnson}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 
\par 
\par 4.  When he asks his wife to prove her purity a second time through ordeal by fire, she instead gives herself to Mother Earth.  This hero had been banished from Ayodhya for 14 years, during which time he fought the Raks
hasas who kidnapped his wife.  He kills the demon Ravana after the monkey warrior Hanuman helps find this character's wife, Sita.  FTP, name this avatar of Vishnu and hero of a Sanskrit epic which is named for him.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 Rama}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090  (prompt on "Ramayana")
\par 
\par 5.
  Its 18th chapter includes the parables of the Pharisee and the Tax Collector and of the Unjust Judge.  The 15th chapter includes the parable of the Prodigal Son, while the Good Samaritan appears in chapter 10.  Like Acts of the Apostles, it opens with a
n address to Theophilus.  FTP, this describes which of the synoptic gospels, traditionally appearing third in the New Testament?
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 Luke}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid10031710 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 6.  In the reaction of carbon monoxide and water to produce methanol, extracting methanol from the system wil
l cause production of more methanol.  If carbon monoxide were to be extracted, then less methanol would be produced, because the system's equilibrium will shift to minimize the effect of the change.  FTP, this is a result of what principle from chemistry,
 named for its 18th-century French formulator?
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 Le Chatelier}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 's Principle
\par }{\insrsid11893090 
\par 7. }{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 Its happy, happy boughs can not shed their leaves, nor bid the spring adieu.  Its mysterious priest leads a heifer, lowing at the skies, to a sacrifice, as a happy melodis
t pipes songs forever new.  It expresses a flowery tale more sweetly than our rhyme, and its Attic shape is overwrought with marble men and maidens.  Depicting an ancient scene fixed in time, this is, FTP, what title object of an ode by John Keats?
\par \tab Answer:  the }{\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 Grecian Urn}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090  (accept }{\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 Ode on a Grecian Urn}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 )
\par }{\insrsid15078183 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11893090 {\insrsid11893090 8. }{\insrsid11893090\charrsid11893090 
Its current king was also king for 2 months in 1950-51, until his grandfather Tribhuvan returned from "exile" in the Indian embassy.  Maoist rebels under Prachandra have been fighting with its government
 for a decade, which King Gyanendra used in February as a pretense for sacking the government and declaring a state of emergency.  FTP, name this kingdom in which Prince Dipendra slew most of the royal family in 2001, a small mountainous nation between Ch
ina and India.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid11893090\charrsid11893090 Nepal}{\insrsid11893090 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid11893090\charrsid11893090 
\par }{\insrsid11893090 9}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 
.  The effects of the title figure can be countered by the contents of a silver vase crafted by Cellini, and Professor Baglioni gives the vase to the young Giovanni.  From his apartment in Padua, Giovanni sees into a beautif
ul garden next door where the title figure resides, but when he throws her a bouquet, the flowers wither in her hand.  Ultimately, her father's experiment to make her poisonous leads to disaster.  FTP, this describes what short story by Nathaniel Hawthorn
e?
\par \tab Answer:  }{\insrsid11893090\charrsid11893090 \'93}{\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 Rappaccini's Daughter}{\insrsid11893090\charrsid11893090 \'94}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 
\par 
\par 1}{\insrsid11893090 0}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 
.  He once referred to Marx, Freud, and geology as his "three mistresses."  While teaching sociology in Sao Paolo for four years, he met the Nambikwara and other Amazonian cultures, but he spent little time living amo
ng indigenous peoples in his career.  An opponent of functionalism, he developed structuralism while in Paris, and his writings include }{\i\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 The Elementary Structures of Kinship}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090  and }{
\i\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 The Raw and the Cooked}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 .  FTP, name this Belgian founder of structural anthropology who rarely wore denim.
\par \tab Answer:  Claude }{\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 Levi-Strauss}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090  ["LEH-vee STROSE"]
\par }{\insrsid15078183 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11893090 {\insrsid11893090 11. }{\insrsid11893090\charrsid11893090 
This property explains the symmetric structures of the ozone molecule and the carbonate ion, and why each of their bonds is slightly shorter than a single bond.  When multiple
 Lewis structures are available for a single molecule, this property dictates that the actual structure is an average of the possible structures.  FTP, name this concept of chemical bonding, developed by Linus Pauling, which shares its name with a term fr
om acoustics.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid11893090\charrsid11893090 resonance}{\insrsid11893090 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid11893090\charrsid11893090 
\par }{\insrsid11893090 12}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 
.  He was picked third in the 1992 draft despite winning the Wooden Award and setting the all-time NCAA tournament career scoring record.  An 82% free-throw shooter despite being almost seven feet tall, he has never m
atched the 18.2 points per game of his rookie season in Minnesota.  As a member of the Heat in 2005, he teamed with the two players drafted ahead of him, Shaquille O'Neal and Alonzo Mourning.  FTP, name this former Duke Blue Devil most famous for his 1992
 game-winning shot in a 104-103 win over Kentucky.
\par \tab Answer:  Christian }{\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 Laettner}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid11893090 13}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 .  He pretends to be a Japanese camera company spokesman to further humiliate his enemy.  He declares that the audience will both like him and love him, but ultimately he is 
stuck with Ray Jay Johnson.  In addition to giving out shiny dimes and traveling back in time, he can dance the hully-gully and imitate Vin Scully.  After his presence is announced on Springfield Squares, he forces Krusty to pick up Worker and Parasite wh
en Itchy and Scratchy are stolen away.  Voiced by Arthur Crandell, this is, FTP, what ventriloquist's dummy foiled by Krusty's comeback special?
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 Gabbo}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090  (accept "Arthur Crandell" early)
\par 
\par }{\insrsid11893090 14}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 .  One of his toughest opponents was Field Marshal Traum, wh
o used Fabian tactics to trim this man's army from 80,000 to 40,000 in Bohemia.  In his early wins at Mollwitz and Chotusitz, the superior training of his infantry earned him the victory despite the Austrian cavalry beating his cavalry.  He repeatedly sto
mped Prince Charles of Lorraine to secure possession of Silesia, which would be confirmed by the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle.  FTP, name this longtime nemesis of Maria Theresa and emperor of Prussia.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 Frederick the Great}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090  or }{\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 Frederick II}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid11893090 15}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 .  This na
tion's Lac Rose, a bright pink lake surrounded by salt dunes, is the endpoint for a major auto race.  Just south of its Cap Vert peninsula is the Ile de Goree [gor-AY], whose Slave House was the departure point for many slaves.  Traveling from the norther
n to the southern half of its coast requires a trip across the Gambia, and notable writers from here include Ousmane Sembene and Leopold Senghor.  FTP, name this nation of West Africa with capital Dakar.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 Senegal}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid11893090 16}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 .  Its second books opens with a
 series of "begats" which trace the lineage of the two title figures back through Atlas and Goliath of Secondille to Chalbroth.  The elder title character ate six Pilgrims in a salad and made cannonballs fall out of his 900-foot-long hair when he combed i
t.  The younger became king of the Dipsodes, covered an entire army with his tongue, and proposed a new way to build the walls of Paris.  Condemned by the Sorbonne upon release in the 1530s, this is, FTP, what best-known work of Francois Rabelais?
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 Gargantua and Pantagruel}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 
\par }{\insrsid15078183 
\par }{\insrsid10031710 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid10031710\charrsid11893090 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11893090 {\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 1}{\insrsid11893090 7}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 .  }{\insrsid11893090\charrsid11893090 
In a central force problem, its magnitude equals mass times r-squared times theta-dot, and its time derivative equals zero.  Kepler\rquote s Second Law can be restated as the conservation of this quantity.  More generally, it eq
uals mass times distance from the axis times perpendicular velocity, and its time derivative equals torque.  FTP, name this quantity, usually symbolized \'93L,\'94 which is conserved for any rotating system.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\insrsid11893090\charrsid11893090 angular momentum}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 
\par 1}{\insrsid11893090 8}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 
.  Lesser-known figures in this art movement include George Loring Brown, George Inness, and J.F. Cropsey.  George Catlin and Seth Eastman did several paintings of West Point, while Frederick Church preferred landscapes in the namesake region.  Mist and s
unsets amidst the wilderness often appear in the works of the best-known figures, Asher Durand and Thomas Cole.  FTP, name this school of 19th-century artists best known for romantic wilderness images of upstate New York.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 Hudson River}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090  School
\par 
\par }{\insrsid11893090 19}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 .  His father is a pilot for the North American tour of the rock group Los Viajeros, and this character brings a video camera to }{\insrsid10031710 document his travels for}{
\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090  his friends in Elwood City.  He has met a Muslim girl named Farah, several Hmong in Wisconsin, a rodeo r
ider in Texas, and a Mormon family in Utah.  At a maple sugar farm in Vermont, he noted, "Boy, that's a lot of moms!" after meeting two families with lesbian parents}{\insrsid10031710 , causing some concern among grouchy conservatives.}{
\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090   FTP, name this cartoon rabbit and friend of Arthur, one of whose "Postcards" was not distributed by PBS because of governmental pressure.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 Buster}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090  (accept }{\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 Postcards from Buster}{\insrsid15078183\charrsid11893090 )
\par }{\insrsid15078183 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11893090 {\insrsid11893090 20. }{\insrsid11893090\charrsid11893090 
A founder of the Youth League along with Oliver Tambo and Walter Sisulu, his "No Easy Walk to Freedom" address came in the wake of the Defiance Campaign.  He and Tambo ran a law office to provide low-cost counsel to poor blacks, but his command of the Spe
a
r of the Nation would to his arrest for sabotage, and he became prisoner number 46664 after the Rivonia Trial.  Along with Sisulu and Govan Mbeki, he would spend more than two decades at the Robben Island prison.  FTP, name this Nobel Peace Prize winner a
nd former president of South Africa.
\par \tab Answer:  Nelson }{\ul\insrsid11893090\charrsid11893090 Mandela}{\insrsid11893090 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid15078183 
\par }{\insrsid10031710 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10031710 {\b\insrsid10031710\charrsid10031710 Valencia Delta Burke Invitational 2005\emdash Round 6 Bonuses}{\b\insrsid15078183\charrsid10031710 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid10031710\charrsid11893090 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 1. FTP each ... name that chromosome.
\par A.  Trisomy of this short chromosome is the most common cause of Down syndrome, and it was the second chromosome to be completely mapped.
\par \tab Answer:  chromosome }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 21}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par B.  A person with Kleinfelter's syndrome has two copies of it instead of one, and it is "Fragile" in cases where the FMR-1 gene is inactivated.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 X}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  chromosome
\par C.  A deletion on its short arm causes cri-du-chat syndrome, and a trisomy of the short arm can produce an unusually small head.
\par \tab Answer:  chromosome }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 5}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15078183 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par 2.  FTP each, name these works of Virgil.
\par A.  This 12-book epic describes the founding of Rome.
\par \tab Answer:  the }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Aeneid}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par B.  Agriculture and beekeeping are subjects of this 4-boo}{\fs22\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 k work, completed around 30 BCE.}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par \tab Answer:  the }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Georgics}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par C.  The rustic Tityrus bears some resemblance to Virgil in this set of ten pastoral poems, completed around 37 B.C.
\par \tab Answer:  the }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Eclogues}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  or the }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Bucolics}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15078183 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par 3.  FTSNOP, name these children of Nut from Egyptian myth.
\par A. [15] The youngest of the five, she marries her evil brother.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Nephthys}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par B. [10] The aforementioned evil brother, he chops Osiris into 14 chunks and spreads them all over Egypt.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Set}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  or }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Seth}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par C. [5]  This wife of Osiris collected the Osiris chunks to bring him back to life.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Isis}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15078183 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par 4.  In Super Bowl 19, the Miami Dolphins started 9 players on defense whose last names started with the letter "B," two of whom w
ere brothers.  For 10 for one, 15 points for two, 20 for three, and 30 for four, identify any four of those eight "Killer B" surnames.
\par \tab Answer:  Doug }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Betters}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 , Kim }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Bokamper}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 , Bob }{
\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Baumhower}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 , Bob }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Brudzinski}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 , Jay }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Brophy}{
\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 , Mark }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Brown}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 , Charles }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Bowser}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
, and Glen and Lyle }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Blackwood}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15078183 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par 5.  In February, scientists found a so-called "hotspot" at the pole of another planet, the first such warm polar vortex discovered.  For 10 points per correct answer ...
\par A. [10] Which planet, which is nearly 10 a.u. from the Sun?
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Saturn}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par B. [10, 10]  The hotspot was found by the world's largest optical observatory, a pair of identical telescopes atop a Hawaiian mountain.  Name both the observatory and the mountain.
\par \tab Answers:  W. M. }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Keck}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  Observatory, and }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Mauna Kea}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15078183 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 6.  FTP each, name that 20th-century pope.  Give the papal name, not the guy's birth name.
\par A.  He opened the Vatican Two council in 1962, which would be closed by his successor, Paul VI.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 John XXIII}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par B.  Succeeding Paul VI, he held the office for just over a month in 1978 before his death.  He was succeeded by a Polish fellow.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 John Paul I}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par C.  Pope from 1939-58, his actions or inactions during World War II have been a source of controversy.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Pius XII}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par 
\par 7.  Name these developers of "stage" theories in psychology, FTSNOP.
\par A. [5]  F5P, his four stages of development include the sensorimotor and formal operational.
\par \tab Answer:  Jean }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Piaget}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par B. [10]  FTP, his eight stages of psychosocial development include latency, young adulthood, and muscular-anal.
\par \tab Answer:  Erik }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Erikson}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par C. [15]  For 15 points, this longtime Harvard professor classified six stages of moral development, going from obedience and punishment orientation to principled conscience.
\par \tab Answer:  Lawrence }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Kohlberg}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par 
\par 8.  Some sports cheaters can be pretty amusing.  For 15 points each:
\par A.  She "won" the 1980 Boston Marathon by sneaking onto the course half a mile from the finish;  better yet, she qualified for Boston with a New York Marathon run that included a subway trip.
\par \tab Answer:  Rosie }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Ruiz}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par B.  In 2000, this nation won a Paralympics gold in basketball for athletes with intellectual disabilities . . . but 10 of the 12 players had no such disability.  At least they didn't put Pau Gasol on the team.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Spain}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par 
\par 9.  Name these fiction authors of recent "histories," FTP each:
\par A.  One of only two 2-time winners of the Booker prize, this Australian wrote 2003's }{\i\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 True History of the Kelly Gang}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 .
\par \tab Answer:  Peter }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Carey}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par B.  The writer of this question likes this author's }{\i\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 History of the World in 10 1/2 Chapters}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  better than his work }{\i\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
Flaubert's Parrot}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 .
\par \tab Answer:  Julian }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Barnes}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par C.  This Italian guy's 2004 }{\i\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 History of Beauty}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  is a nonfiction work, unlike }{\i\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Foucault's Pendulum}{
\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  and }{\i\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 The Name of the Rose}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 .
\par \tab Answer:  Umberto }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Eco}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10031710 {\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 10. }{\fs22\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 FTSNOP, name the colony or state in which these rebellions occurred:
\par A.  F5P, Shays' Rebellion, 1786
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 Massachusetts}{\fs22\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 
\par B.  FTP, Dorr's Rebellion, 1840
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 Rhode Island}{\fs22\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 
\par C.  FTP, Culpepper's Rebellion, 1677
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 North Carolina}{\fs22\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 
\par D.  F5P, Bacon's Rebellion, 1676
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10031710 {\fs22\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 Virginia}{\fs22\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183  (accept }
{\fs22\ul\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 Jamestown}{\fs22\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 )
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 11.  Name these energy formulations from chemistry and physics, FTP each:
\par A.  Not to be confused with Helmholtz free energy, this quantity equals H - TS.
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Gibbs}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  free energy
\par B.  The heat content of a system, it has the form H = E + PV.
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 enthalpy}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  [not \'93entropy\'94]
\par C.  Equal to kinetic minus potential energy, this function can be integrated to give the action, and the Hamiltonian can be derived from it.
\par \tab Answer: }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Lagrangian}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  [or \'93Lagrange\rquote s function\'94 or equivalents]
\par 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 12}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 .  Name these short Platonic dialogues, for 15 points each:
\par A.  Socrates questions the art of the title rhapsode because, for instance, a rhapsode who speaks of chariots knows less than the charioteer.  Near the end, Socrates asks the title figure if he wants to be thought of as "dishonest" or "inspired."
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Ion}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par B.  The imprisoned Socrates has a chance to escape with the title character, but he elects to stay in prison and face death because he has implicitly endorsed the law and the social contract by living in Athens.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Crito}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 13}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 .  After the 2004 election, the Bush cabinet was expunged of most remaining moderates.  Name these cabinet officers, FTP each:
\par A.  She moved from NSA advisor to Secretary of State, replacing Colin Powell.
\par \tab Answer:  Condoleeza }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Rice}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par B.  A former GOP counsel for the Whitewater committee, this appeals court judge replaced Tom Ridge as head of Homeland Security.
\par \tab Answer:  Michael }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Chertoff}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par C.  A former Vatican ambassador and former head of the Republican National Committee, he replaced Anthony Principi in Veterans Affairs.
\par \tab Answer:  Jim }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Nicholson}{\fs22\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 
\par 
\par 14}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 .  Name these European military commanders who made good use of strategic turning maneuvers, FTSNOP:
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15078183 A.  F5P, this man}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  used an unusual turning move to block Pompey at Ilerda, leading to his victory at Pharsalus.
\par \tab Answer:  Julius }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Caesar}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par B.  FTP, this master of the turn used it at Marengo in 1800 and Ulm in 1805.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Napoleon}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  Bonaparte}{\fs22\insrsid15078183  }{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par C.  For 15 points, in 1918, this British general used superior mobility to execute a turn that crushed the Turks at Megiddo.
\par \tab Answer:  Edmund }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Allenby}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10031710 {\fs22\insrsid15078183 15. }{\fs22\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 Name these periods of the Paleozoic Era, FTP each:
\par A.  This fourth period is known as the "Age of Fishes."
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 Devonian}{\fs22\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183  Period
\par B.  This last period ended with a mass extinction leading into the Triassic period, known in geology as the P-T boundary.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 Permian}{\fs22\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183  Period
\par C.  Divided into Pennsylvanian and Mississippian portions, this period saw the appearance of conifers which eventually became coal ... thus the name of the period.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183 Carboniferous}{\fs22\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183  Period
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22\insrsid10031710 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 16.  You're traveling all the way down the Mississippi.  FTNSOP ...
\par A.  FTP, you'd start from what Minnesota lake, the headwaters of the river?
\par \tab Answer:  Lake }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Itasca}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par B.  F5P each, name the two state capitals you'd pass by.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Saint Paul}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  and }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Baton Rouge}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par C.  FTP, as you pass Cairo, Illinois, what major river joins the Mississippi on your left?
\par \tab Answer:  the }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Ohio}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  river
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15078183 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par 17.  Answer the following about an American poet and his works, FTP each.
\par A.  In this 1847 work, Gabriel and the title figure are separated when the Acadians are expelled from Nova Scotia.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Evangeline}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par B.  Name the author of }{\i\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Evangeline}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 , as well as "The Village Blacksmith" and }{\i\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 The Courtship of Miles Standish}{
\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 .
\par \tab Answer:  Henry Wadsworth }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Longfellow}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par C.  Which Longfellow collection includes the poetic tales "Paul Revere's Ride," "Elizabeth," and "The Saga of King Olaf"?
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Tales of a Wayside Inn}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par 
\par 
\par 18.  FTP each ... name that Mughal.
\par A. This founder of the dynasty crushed the Lodhi empire at Panipat in 1526.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Babur}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  or }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Babar}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par B.  Ruler from 1627 to 1658, he's best known for building the Taj Mahal in Agra.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Shah Jahan}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183   (prompt on "Khurram")
\par C.  This son of Akbar ruled from 1605-27.  When his son Khusraw tried to claim the throne, Khusraw's eyes were taken out.
\par \tab Answer:  Nurrudin }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Jahangir}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  (prompt on "Salim")
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15078183 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par 19.  FTP each, answer the following about the works catalogued as BWV 1046-1051.
\par A.  Name this set of compositions, presented to the Margrave of the title locale in 1721.
\par \tab Answer:  the }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Brandenburg}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  Concerti (or Concertos)
\par B.  Which one features a long harpsichord cadenza in the first movement?
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 fifth}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  or number }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 5}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par C.  Which one is a G Major concerto using only stringed instruments?
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 third}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  or number }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 3}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15078183 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par 20.  Answer the following about the Bulgarian King of Wrap, FTSNOP.
\par A.  [5] F5P, name the artist who, with wife Jeanne-Claude, wrapped several Florida Keys in pink fabric in 1983.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Christo}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  Javacheff}{\fs22\insrsid10031710\charrsid15078183  }{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par B.  [10] FTP, this fabric wall in Sonoma and Marin counties stood in complete form for 2 weeks in 1976.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Running Fence}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par C.  [5, 10]  Among the structures wrapped by Christo are a Berlin government building and a Parisian bridge.  For 5 points for one and 15 for both, name them.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Reichstag}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183  and }{\fs22\ul\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 Pont Neuf}{\fs22\insrsid15078183\charrsid15078183 
\par 
\par }}