{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman{\*\falt  Times};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Ronald L. Usher}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy4\hr14\min6}{\printim\yr1999\mo3\dy12\hr23\min21}{\version1}{\edmins4}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49197}}
\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0 \fet0\sectd \linex0\footery1080 {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \f4\fs20 Cal Classic IV
\par Packet by Casey Cook
\par 
\par {\ul Tossups
\par }
\par \pard 1.  This novel\rquote s main character participates in the slaying of his adopted son Ikemefuna, but the protagonist is exiled from his village not for this killing but rather for the accidental killing of a clansman.
  When the main character, Okonkwo, returns to his village, he finds it taken over by Christian colonists.  FTP, name this novel about the decay of Ibo society under English colonization, written by Chinua Achebe.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\i\ul Things Fall Apart}
\par 
\par \pard 2.  This law of physics may be viewed as an application of Le Chatelier\rquote 
s principle to electrodynamics. Named for the Estonian physicist who first stated it, it describes the direction of electrical current.  For ten points,  name this law which states that the electrom
otive force induced in a conductor moving perpendicular to a magnetic field tends to oppose that motion.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul Lenz}\rquote s Law
\par 
\par \pard 
3.  After becoming chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in 1959, this native of Missouri became one of the first and most vocal opponents of the Vietnam War.  For ten points, name this former Senator from Arkansas, famous for his Internation
al Student exchange program.
\par \pard \tab Answer: J. William {\ul Fulbright}
\par 
\par \pard 4.  Although this composer lived only 31 years, by his 1828 death he had composed nearly 1000 works.  He joined a seminary, but left to become a teacher before starting to compose music. For ten points, name this composer of \ldblquote 
Six Moments Musicaux,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Pianoworks for Four Hands,\rdblquote  and nine symphonies, including \ldblquote The Great Symphony\rdblquote  and \ldblquote The Unfinished Symphony.\rdblquote 
\par \pard \tab Answer: Franz {\ul Schubert}
\par 
\par \pard 5.  Born in Eatonville, Florida, in 1901, she is best known for her sympathetic portrayal of black life. Several of her works reflect her studies in anthropology under Franz Boas. For ten points, n
ame this author whose unmarked grave was discovered by Alice Walker and who wrote {\i Dust Tracks on the Road}, {\i Tell My Horse}, {\i Mules and Men} and {\i There Eyes Were Watching God}.
\par \pard \tab Answer: Zora Neale {\ul Hurston}
\par 
\par \pard 
6.  Born in Budapest, Hungary in 1898, this man made significant contributions to statistical mechanics, genetics, molecular biology, and political science before turning to the field he is famous for. His more famous contributions came in Nuclear Physics
 and Nuclear Engineering.  For ten points, name this man who, along with Enrico Fermi, was given a patent for the nuclear fission reactor.
\par \pard \tab Answer: Leo {\ul Szilard}
\par 
\par \pard 7.  Though he was jailed for two attempted coups, this European won his country\rquote 
s 1848 presidential election.  His actions allowed and inhibited the unification of Italy, one of his foreign policy ?successes.  It was also he who masterminded putting Maxim
ilian on the throne of Mexico.  That failed almost as badly as his Franco-Prussian War.  FTP, name this French emperor.
\par \pard \tab Answer {\ul Napoleon III} (accept {\ul Louis Napoleon})
\par 
\par \pard 
8.  A frat boy wants to get high on Nitrous Oxide.  He has a large container of it with a metal nozzle.  He turns the valve and sucks on the nozzle.  He soon notices that his lips and tongue have become frozen to the nozzle and he can't get them off.  For
 ten points, his embarrassment was caused by what effect, in which gas forced through a small opening causes the opening to lose heat rapidly.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul Joule-Thompson} effect
\par 
\par \pard 9.  Born in 1852, his given name was Mutsuhito and he came to power wh
en he was only fifteen. He had little political power, but was the most important symbol of unity in Japan. For ten points, name this man whose ascension meant the end of Japanese feudalism and the forging of a new and modern state, famous for his Restora
tion.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul Meiji}
\par 
\par \pard 10.  This economic condition was at first deemed impossible by the early, simple use of the Phillips Curve.  It occurred for a long period of time in the 1970's forcing economists to revise their usage of the Phillips Curve.  For ten p
oints, name this condition which occurs when inflation and unemployment are simultaneously rising.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul stagflation}
\par 
\par \pard 11.  Competing with him for a woman was a risky proposition, even for a god.  When the river god Inachus (ee-KNOCK-us) squared off in a wrestling match over Deianeira (DAY-uh-nair-a) this man broke off Inachus\rquote 
 horn.  When king Laomedon denied him Hesione, he sacked Troy.  FTP, name this mythological strongman whose track record with women is a bit mixed; he killed his first wife, Megara, in a fit of insanity.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul Heracles} (accept {\ul Hercules})
\par 
\par \pard 
12.  Located on the Tiete river, about 35 miles from the ocean, this city is its country's chief port. Founded in 1554 by the Portugese, the 15 million people in its metropolitan area make it the largest city in its country and on its continent.  For ten 
points, name this Brazillian city.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul Sao Paulo}
\par 
\par \pard 13.  This order of mammals is sometimes known as a subclass called Prototheria.  Adults of this order are toothless and males have spurs conne
cted to poisoned glands on their hind feet. Found only in and around Australia, this order contains the only mammals who lay eggs.  For ten points, name this order which includes the duckbilled platypus and the echidna.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul Monotremata} (accept Monotremes)
\par 
\par \pard 14.  \ldblquote Frankenstein and Dracula,\rdblquote  \ldblquote The Chelsea Girls,\rdblquote  \ldblquote L'Amour,\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Trash\rdblquote 
 are all movies made by this man. He also launched the magazine "Interview" which centered upon his fascination with the cult of celebrity.  For ten points, name this artist 
famous for his portraits of Marilyn Monroe and John F. Kennedy and for paintings of dollar bills and soup cans, the leading exponent of the pop art movement.
\par \pard \tab Answer: Andy {\ul Warhol}
\par 
\par \pard 
15.  Born in 1717, her father was Charles VI of Austria.  When she became queen, she was immediately confronted with an invasion led by Frederick II of Prussia who boldly seized Siliesa marking the start of the War of Austrian Succession.  For ten points,
 name this woman allowed to be queen by the Pragmatic Sanction.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul Maria Theresa}
\par 
\par \pard 
16.  Some geologists maintain that this lake is actually the beginnings of a major ocean because of the hydrothermal vents at its bottom.  Lying just west of the Yablonovy Mountains, it's only Island is Olkhon.  For ten points, name this long, narrow Russ
ian lake containing 20% of the Earth\rquote s fresh water which is the deepest lake in the world.
\par \pard \tab Answer: Lake {\ul Baikal}
\par 
\par \pard 17.  \ldblquote He that steals my purse steals trash...but he that filches from me my good name steals that which not enriches him and leaves me poor indeed.\rdblquote   A fantastic line spoken by one of Shakespeare\rquote 
s greatest (worst) slanderers and connivers.  This man, by rumor and deceit, turns the moor of Venice into a jealous madman.  FTP, who is this sinister schemer who gets all the best lines in {\i Othello}.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul Iago}
\par 
\par \pard 18.  One of the most important thinkers of the 19th century, this man supported women's rights, proportional representation, labor unions, and farm cooperatives in such works as {\i The Irish Land Question} and {\i The Subjection of Women}.  A 
strong proponent of empiricism and utilitarianism, he studied under Jeremy Bentham and his own father James.  For ten points, name this author of {\i On Liberty}.
\par \pard \tab Answer: John Stuart {\ul Mill}
\par 
\par \pard 
19.  Born in Lagos Nigeria in 1975, he went to high school in England.  His father Ezekiel is a diplomat for the Nigerian government.  He attended Brunel University in England before transferring to the University of the Pacific and taking up basketball. 
 For ten points, name this man who led the Big West conference in points, rebounds, and assists his senior year before being made the 1998 number one draft pick by the LA Clippers.
\par \pard \tab Answer: Michael {\ul Olowokandi}
\par 
\par \pard 
20.  The name is the same.  One is a genus of birds related to albatrosses and petrels.  The other causes diseases in which victims develop abnormal patches of protein on their brain tissue.  For ten points, give this term coined by Stanley Prusiner for s
mall protein particles which cause diseases such as scrapie, kuru, and mad cow disease.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul Prions}
\par 
\par \pard 21.  In this b
ook, the Persian king Ahasueres has given up his old wife Vashti in favor of the title character.  The title character's cousin Mordecai insults the courtier Hamon who persuades the king to massacre the Jews.  The king then has a change of heart, hangs Ha
mon and favors the Jews.  For then points, name this book of the Old Testament.
\par \pard \tab Answer: Book of {\ul Esther}
\par 
\par \pard 22. The kings of this city supposedly lived between 11th and 8th centuries BCE in Latium.  Believed to be completely fictional, it is thought that they 
were made up to bridge the gap between the Trojan War and the birth of Romulus and Remus.  For ten points, name the city of Numitor and Amulius, founded by Ascanius.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul Alba Longa}
\par 
\par \pard 23.  This man often alludes to Kafka and Defoe in works which he insists are not political.  A South African, his works were always published in other countries for fear of government censorship.  For ten points, name this author of {\i Dusklands}, 
{\i From the Heart of the Country}, {\i Waiting for Barbarians}, and {\i The Life and Times of Michael K}.
\par \pard \tab Answer: J(ohn) M(ichael) {\ul Coetzee}
\par 
\par \pard 24.  This collection of essays is based on the experiences of its author in the 1960's.  Set in California, its three sections include \ldblquote Lifestyles in the Golden Land,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Personals,\rdblquote  and \ldblquote 
Seven Places of the Mind.\rdblquote   For ten points, name this book whose title essay describes the author's experiences in San Francisco's Haight-Ashbury district, written by Joan Didion.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul Slouching Towards Bethlehem}
\par 
\par {\ul 
\par 
\par Boni}
\par 
\par 1.  Given an invention, name the inventor for ten points each.
\par a) Dynamite
\par \tab Answer: Alfred {\ul Nobel}
\par b) Air Brake
\par \tab Answer: George {\ul Westinghouse}
\par c) Helicopter controls
\par \tab Answer: Igor {\ul Sikorsky}
\par 
\par 2.  30-20-10 name the composer from works:
\par 30: the movie "A Star is Born"
\par 20: "Lady Be Good"  "Of Thee I Sing"
\par 10: "Rhapsody in Blue"
\par \tab Answer: George {\ul Gershwin}
\par 
\par 3.  Given a man, name his ship for ten points each.
\par a) Charles Darwin
\par \tab Answer: HMS {\ul Beagle}
\par b) John Paul Jones
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Bon Homme Richard}
\par c) Francis Drake
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Golden Hind} or {\ul Pelican}
\par 
\par 4.  Given a scientific accomplishment or discovery, name the scientist who achieved it for ten points each.
\par a)  Explained photoelectric effect in 1905
\par \tab Answer: Albert {\ul Einstein}
\par b)  Started Periodic Table
\par \tab Answer: Dmitri {\ul Mendeleev}
\par c) Devised the oil drop experiment to find the charge of the electron
\par \tab Answer: Robert {\ul Millikan}
\par 
\par 5.  Given a work of Chinese literature, name the author on a 5-10-15 basis
\par a) 5pts: {\i Analects}
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Confucius}
\par b) 10pts: {\i The Art of War}
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Sun-Tzu}
\par c) 15pts: {\i The Golden Lotus}
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Jin Ping}
\par 
\par 6.  Given a year, name the person who held the British throne for ten points each.
\par a). 1497
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Henry VII}
\par b) 1626
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Charles I}
\par c) 1687
\par \tab Answer: {\ul James II}
\par 
\par 7.  Give the capital of the following areas which are not countries on a 5-10-15 basis.
\par a) 5 pts: Northern Territories, Australia
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Darwin}
\par b) 10 pts: Tibet
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Lhasa}
\par c) 15 pts: Siberia
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Irkutsk}
\par 
\par 8.  What do you know about Berkeley's storied scientific past? Answer the following for ten points each.
\par a) Name the man who won the 1939 Nobel Prize in Physics and Invented the Cyclotron at Berkeley.
\par \tab Answer: Ernest Orlando {\ul Lawrence}
\par \pard b) Name the father of the Hydrogen Bomb who worked on it at UC's Los Alamos National Laboratory and later worked at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.
\par \pard \tab Answer: Edward {\ul Teller}
\par \pard c) Name the chemist who, until dying on February 25, was the only living person ever to have an element named after him.  He discovered Berkelium, Calfornium, and Plutonium among others.
\par \pard \tab Answer: Glenn {\ul Seaborg}
\par 
\par \pard 9.  Well we've had a bonus about Berkeley, it's only fair that we have one about Stanford, so answer the following about the inferior university across the bay for the stated number of points.
\par \pard a) 5pts: This man, the founder of the university, tried to buy a spot of the UC Board of Regents with money he earned by working Chinese immigrants to death.  When he was denied, he endowed the university with the same corrupt money.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul Leland Stanford}
\par \pard b) 5pts: This man, the 31st President of the United States and the most famous graduate of the Junior Farm, oversaw the economic downturn which led to the Great Depression
\par \pard \tab Answer: Herbert {\ul Hoover}
\par \pard 
c) 20pts: These two men who came from Fairchild Semiconductors and the Junior Farm, founded Intel, whose flawed Pentium chip caused millions of dollars in damage before the problem was corrected several months after its release. Name them for ten points e
ach.
\par \pard \tab Answer: Gordon {\ul Moore} and Bob {\ul Noyce}
\par 
\par 10.  Given the stadium of an NFL team, name the team for ten points each.
\par a) Memorial Stadium
\par \tab Answer: Baltimore Ravens (accept either city or nickname)
\par b) Ericsson Stadium
\par \tab Answer: Carolina Panthers
\par c) Raymond James Stadium
\par \tab Answer: Tampa Bay Buccaneers
\par 
\par 11.  Given a work of art, name the painter for fifteen points, or five points if you need a more famous work.
\par a) 15pts: Vampire
\par       5pts: The Scream
\par \tab Answer: Edvard {\ul Munch}
\par b) 15pts: The Balcony
\par \pard      5pts: Luncheon on the Grass\line \tab Answer: Edouard {\ul Manet}
\par \pard 
\par 12.  Name the Author from works 30-20-10
\par 30: {\i The Drifters}, {\i The Bridges at Toko-Ri}
\par 20: {\i Caribbean}, {\i Space}
\par 10: {\i Hawaii}, {\i Tales of the South Pacific}
\par \tab Answer: James A. {\ul Michener}
\par 
\par \pard 13.  For ten points each, name the three presidents who won the electoral college vote and the presidency, despite losing the popular vote.
\par \pard \tab Answer: John {\ul Quincy Adams}, {\ul Benjamin Harrison}, Rutherford {\ul Hayes}
\par 
\par 14.  Given a Greek god, name the Roman equivalent for ten points each.
\par a) Rhea
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Ops} (or {\ul Cybele})
\par b) Eros
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Cupid}
\par c) Cronus
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Saturn}
\par 
\par \pard 15.  How well do you know your Literary Lowells.  Answer the following about Authors named Lowell for ten points each.
\par a) This man was born in Cambridge, Mass. and attended Harvard before becoming the first editor of the Atlantic Monthly and publishing {\i The Biglow Papers}.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul James} Russell Lowell
\par b) This American poet received a Pulitzer Prize for his 1946 poem \ldblquote Lord Weary's Castle.\rdblquote 
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Robert} Lowell
\par \pard c) This New England Imagist of the early 20th century is best known for works such as: {\i A Dome of Many-Colored Glass} and {\i Sword Blades and Poppy Seed}.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul Amy} Lowell
\par 
\par 16.  Given a description, name the primary germ layer, for ten points each.
\par a)  Includes skin, nervous system, and sense organs.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Ectoderm}
\par b) Includes lining of lungs, lining of digestive system, pancreas, liver, and respiratory system.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Endoderm}
\par c) Includes muscles, skeleton, hear, blood vessels, blood, and kidneys.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Mesoderm}
\par 
\par 17.  30-20-10-5 name the author from works
\par 30pts: {\i Innocent Erendira}, {\i Leaf Storm}
\par 20pts: {\i No One Writes to the Colonel}, {\i Evil Hour}
\par 10pts: {\i Love in the Time of Cholera}
\par 5pts: {\i One Hundred Years of Solitude}
\par \tab Answer: Gabriel {\ul Garc\'eda M\'e1rquez}
\par 
\par 18.  Given a mountain range, name the country in which its highest peak lies on a 5-10-15 basis.
\par a) 5 pts: Appenines
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Italy}
\par b) 10 pts: Atlas
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Morocco}
\par c) 15 pts: Andes
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Argentina}
\par 
\par \pard 19.  For five points each and a bonus five for all correct, put the following elements in order from most electronegative to least electronegative.
\par \pard Nitrogen, Flourine, Rubidium, Lead, Carbon
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Flourine}, {\ul Nitrogen}, {\ul Carbon}, {\ul Lead}, {\ul Rubidium}
\par 
\par \pard 20.  For five points each and a bonus five for all correct name the composers which made up the famous "Russian Five"\line \tab Answer: Modest {\ul Mussorgski},  Nicolai {\ul Rimsky-Korsakov},  Mili {\ul Balakirev},  Cesar {\ul Cui},  Aleksandr {
\ul Borodin}
\par \pard 
\par 21.  30-20-10 name the author from works
\par 30pts: {\i World So Wide}
\par 20pts: {\i Main Street}
\par 10pts: {\i Babbit}
\par \tab Answer: Sinclair {\ul Lewis}
\par 
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par aa
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par aa
\par a
\par a
\par aa
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par aa
\par 
\par aa
\par a
\par a
\par aa
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par aa
\par a
\par aa
\par a
\par a
\par aa
\par }