{\rtf1\ansi \deff56\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman{\*\falt  Times};}{\f8\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f56\fnil\fcharset77\fprq2 Geneva{\*\falt Arial};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\f56\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15 \f56\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext15 endnote text;}{
\s16\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f56\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext16 footer;}{\s17\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f56\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext17 header;}{\s18 \f56 \sbasedon0\snext18 NORMAL;}}{\info{\title RTX}{\author David M. Levinson}{\operator Ronald L. Usher}
{\creatim\yr1998\mo8\dy6\hr21\min20}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy7\hr23\min15}{\printim\yr1999\mo3\dy12\hr23\min22}{\version1}{\edmins5}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49197}}\margl2160\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aendnotes\hyphhotz0\ftnnrlc\aftnnar\sprstsp\otblrul\brkfrm\hyphcaps0 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\header \pard\plain \s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f56\fs20 {\f8\cchs256 High School Questions of Cal Classic IV (UR2)\tab \tab 
by David M. Levinson
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f56\fs20 {\cchs256 \tab \chpgn 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \f56\fs20 {\f4\cchs256 Cal Classic IV
\par }\pard {\f4 Packet }{\f4\cchs256 by David Levinson
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Tossups
\par }{\f4\cchs256 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 1. Born in Waldorf, Germany in 1763, in 1784 he moved to America and quickly became a trader from his New York base. He made trips to Canada and in 1808 created the American Fur Company. For 10 points -- na
me this man whose wealth and luxury is still remembered in the name of a famous New York hotel.
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4   }{\f4\cchs256 John Jacob }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Astor}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 
2. Wanting a dog bold enough to kill rats but small enough to carry in a pocket, weavers in northern England developed this breed in the 1850's. Having silky, long hair that touches the floor -- for 10 points -- name this 4-8 pound toy dog.
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Yorkshire}{\f4\cchs256  Terrier (or Yorkie)
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 3. The Republicans are of course the Grand Old Party, but this four-time English Prime Minister was called
 "The Grand Old Man".  A rival to the Tory Disraeli -- for 10 points -- name this leader of the liberals in the late 19th Century who tried but failed to give Ireland Home Rule.
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:  William Ewart }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Gladstone}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard \tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f4\cchs256 
4. This drug has now been shown to be effective in treating the mouth ulcers of people infected with HIV.  This at least shows some beneficial effects for a medicine which resulted in many limbless European babies in the early 1960's.  For 10 points -- na
me this drug, the only known so far to heal the ulcers, which has recently been approved to treat Leprosy?
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer: }{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Thalidomide}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 
5. This Tolstoy work begins "Happy families are all alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way." For 10 points -- in what novel does the title character enter a tragic, adulterous affair, and commit suicide by throwing herself under a train.  

\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:  }{\i\f4\ul\cchs256 Anna Karenina}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 
\par }\pard {\f4 6.  One of the most famous statues in antiquity of this god depicts him as a baby on the arm of his half-brother Hermes.  Some scholars think his 
worship came from the East.  He is sometimes depicted with wild animals such as tigers and often dolphins.  Wild women called Maenads often accompany him.  FTP, who is this god of revelry, tragedy, and wine in Greek mythology?
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab Answer: }{\f4\ul Dionysus}{\f4  (prompt on }{\f4\ul Bacchus}{\f4 )
\par }{\f4\cchs256 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 7. His 1734 }{\i\f4\cchs256 Considerations on the Grandeur and Decadance of the Romans}{\f4\cchs256 
 demonstrates how a democracy, once having lost those public virtues that constitute the essence of its existance perishes through tyranny. In 1721 he satirized Parisian institutions and individuals in his }{\i\f4\cchs256 Persian Letters}{\f4\cchs256 
. For 10 points -- who is best known for }{\i\f4\cchs256 The Spirit of the Laws}{\f4\cchs256 ? 
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4   }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Montesquieu}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 
8. Held in 1884 and 1885 to settle the conflicting claims of the European powers over lands in Africa, this conference mainly discussed the Belgian claim to the Congo. Named after the European capital city where it was held -- for 10 points -- what meetin
g\'d5s agreements led to the peaceful division of Africa among the Europeans? 
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Berlin}{\f4\cchs256  Conference}{\f4  (or Congress of }{\f4\ul Berlin}{\f4 )}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 
\par }\pard \tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f4 9}{\f4\cchs256 
. Like Washington D.C., it was surveyed by Thomas Ellicott, and its plan is quite similar.  Named for the French for "good river", it handled and milled the Great Plains grain in its heyday. It is the unlikely home to the National Earthquake Center, and w
as called home by Presidents Cleveland and Fillmore. For 10 points -- name the city whose minor league team the Bisons play at Pilot Field}{\f4  and whose NFL team plays at Rich Stadium.}{\f4\cchs256  
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Buffalo}{\f4\cchs256  (from Beau Fleuve)
\par }\pard {\f4 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 10. The initial design by Jorn Utzon proved to by unbuildable because hte shell roofs were non-uniform, though the firm of Ove Arup enabled a slightly modified version to be constructed.  Now the world famous symbol of Australia\'d5
s largest city -- for 10 points -- name this multi-shelled performance center.
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Sydney Opera}{\f4\cchs256  House
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 11.}{\f4   The last name is the same: Gustav, working with James Franck, showed that atoms can only absorb energy in definite amounts and won the 1925 Nobel Prize in physics.  Gustav\rquote s uncle Heinrich accidentall
y discovered the photoelectric effect in 1887 during experiments in which he confirmed James Clerk Maxwell\rquote s prediction that electromagnetic waves would travel through space with the speed of light.}{\f4\cchs256   For 10 points -- }{\f4 what}{
\f4\cchs256  name has become the SI unit for }{\f4 frequency}{\f4\cchs256 ? 
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Hertz}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 12. Murphy's Law says that anything that can go wrong will go wrong.  Philip Roth, in the 1969 Portnoy\'d5s Complaint put forward the notion that my desires are repugnant to my morals.  For 10 points -- what trap put forward in a Jo
seph Heller novel, states that you have to be crazy to do something, and if you are crazy we can\'d5t let you do it?
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:  }{\i\f4\ul\cchs256 Catch -22}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 
\par }\pard {\f4 13}{\f4\cchs256 
. Mrs. Sirimavo Bandaronaike was elected Prime Minister of this nation in 1960, and in 1972 she changed it's name. This  country has a Sinhalese majority and Tamil minority, and was the first modern nation to elect a female head of government.  For 10 poi
nts -- name this island of Serendip, just to the south of India.
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Sri Lanka}{\f4\cchs256  (accept Ceylon)
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 14. This tragedy deals with Creon, King of Thebes, and with one of those who tries to unseat him. Creon forbids the burial of Polyneices}{\f4  (poly-NIGH-sees)}{\f4\cchs256 
, and the sister who tries to bury Polyneices is ordered shut up alive in a vault. for 10 points -- what is this play about the conflict of public and private duty written by Sophocles and re-examined by Jean Anouilh? 
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:  }{\i\f4\ul\cchs256 Antigone}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 15. It states that if a stress is placed upon a system in equilibrium, the equilibrium is displaced  in the direction that counteracts the
 effect of the stress. An increase in the concentration of a substance favors the reaction that uses up the substance and lowers its concentration. For 10 points -- what is this chemical law? 
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Le Chatelier'}{\f4\cchs256 s Principle
\par }{\f4 
\par }\pard {\f4 16}{\f4\cchs256 
. Dick Hickok and Perry Smith, for no apparent reason, murdered the Clutter Family in a small Kansas town. Truman Capote secured the confidence of everyone in town and -- for 10 points -- wrote what "nonfiction novel" about this event? 
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:  }{\i\f4\ul\cchs256 In Cold Blood}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 17. Invented in 191
3 by Arthur Wynne, it is derived from the Victorian game called Magic Square. It first appeared in the New York World, and by 1920 every major newspaper printed one. For 10 points --  name this verbal mental exercise? 
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4   }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Crossword}{\f4\cchs256  Puzzle
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 
18. A General Court, including a "Grand Council of Delegates", would serve for three years, while the President would be named by the king. The Iroquois met with delegates from New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, an
d New Hampshire to form a plan of union, at for 10 points what 1754 Convocation? 
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Albany}{\f4\cchs256  Congress}{\f4  (accept Albany Convention or Albany Plan)}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 19. Originally discovered in 1911 by Dutch Physicist}{\f4  Heike}{\f4\cchs256 
 Kamerlingh Onnes, it has more recently been achieved at near room temperature by Paul Chu among others. The implications are enormous- magnets could levitate trains, electric lines would have no power loss, computers would be even faster. For 10 points, 
what is this device, made with ceramics, which offers no resistance to the flow of electricity, and so wastes no energy?
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Superconductivity}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 20. In the early 1400\'d5
s he was financed to go to a fair in France, but missed it by a year.  In order to avoid trouble with his moneylenders he invented a device. In 1455 he entered a partnership with Johann Fust, and it was then he produced what came to 
be called the Mazarin Bible, named for the library where it was found. For 10 points -- who brought printing to Europe? 
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:  Johannes }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Gutenberg}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4 21}{\f4\cchs256 . The Year i
s the Same: Edward Pusey begins his association with the Oxford Movement, Benjamin Harrison is born, Santa Anna becomes President of Mexico, Mehemet Ali is given Egypt and Syria, All German states join the Zollverein, and Andrew Jackson begins his second 
term by withdrawing all US funds from the Bank of the United States. For 10 points -- name the common year. 
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 1833}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 
\par }\pard {\f4 22.  Legend says his father obliged him to swear an oath of hatred against Rome at age nine.  In his twenties, he took over command 
of the army in Spain and opened the Second Punic War.  His successive victories at Trebia, Ticinus, Lake Trasimene, and, worst of all, Cannae were made possible by his bold crossing of the Alps, complete with elephants.  Nevertheless, FTP, what Carthagini
an military genius lost at Zama 14 years after Cannae when Scipio turned his own tactics against him?
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab Answer: }{\f4\ul Hannibal}{\f4  (Barca)
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4 23}{\f4\cchs256 . Associated with excessive alcohol abuse, some writers have used this term as though the syndrome were caused by alcohol abus
e, which is misleading.  For 10 points -- what is this delerium whose onset follows the cessation of alcohol intake after many years of alcohol abuse?
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Delerium Tremens}{\f4\cchs256  (accept D.T.'s )
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4\cchs256 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 \page }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Bonuses}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 1}{\f4\cchs256 .  Identify these famous illustrators (for 10 points each): 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 a) An English Graphic Artist, his work appeared in }{\i\f4\cchs256 Punch}{\f4\cchs256  and today an award bearing his name is given for expertise in the world of children's book illustrations. 
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab A}{\f4\cchs256 nswer:}{\f4   }{\f4\cchs256 Randolph }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Caldecott}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }\pard {\f4 b) }{\f4\cchs256 A cartooinist and bitter political and social satirist, his watercolors of scenes of everyday life are untouched by any romantic feeling for picturesque poverty. He is the French artist of }{\i\f4\cchs256 The People of Justice
}{\f4\cchs256 . 
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4   }{\f4\cchs256 Honore }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Daumier}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }\pard {\f4 c) }{\f4\cchs256 An American illustrator, he exposed the Tweed Ring and created the symbol of the Donkey for the Democrats. 
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4   }{\f4\cchs256 Thomas }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Nast}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par }{\f4 2}{\f4\cchs256 .   Who created the following detectives (or detective like characters) five each, five for all five
\par a) Adam Dalgiesh}{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 \tab \tab \tab Answer:\tab P.D. }{\f4\ul\cchs256 James}{\f4\cchs256 \tab 
\par b) The Hardy Boys\tab \tab \tab Answer:\tab Edward }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Stratemeyer}{\f4\cchs256 \tab 
\par }{\f4 c)}{\f4\cchs256  Nero Wolfe\tab \tab \tab \tab Answer:\tab Rex }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Stout}{\f4\cchs256 \tab 
\par d) Charlie Chan}{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 \tab \tab \tab Answer:\tab Earle }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Biggers}{\f4\cchs256 \tab 
\par e) Mike Hammer\tab }{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 \tab \tab Answer:\tab Mickey }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Spillane}{\f4\cchs256 \tab 
\par 
\par }{\f4 3}{\f4\cchs256 .  Identify these two Portuguese on a 15-5 basis: 
\par }\pard {\f4 a)}{\f4\cchs256 \tab 15 Points:}{\f4  }{\f4\cchs256 
The second governor of the Portuguese colonies in India, he occupied Goa in 1510 and proceeded to seize important points along the trade routes. He captured the Straits of Malacca and Hormuz, thereby giving Portugal control over the Indian Ocean. 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 \tab 5 Points : A city in New Mexico shares his name.
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4   }{\f4\cchs256 Alfonso }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Albuquerque}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4 b)}{\f4\cchs256 \tab 15 Points:}{\f4  }{\f4\cchs256 Living from 1394 to 1460, he sponsored the exploratory voyages along the African coast which laid the foundation for the Colonial Empire. 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 \tab 5 Points: He was a member of the Royal Family.
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4   }{\f4\cchs256 Prince }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Henry}{\f4\cchs256  the Navigator
\par }{\f4 
\par }\pard {\f4 4}{\f4\cchs256 . Places in the Arctic Circle seem to have a proportionally large number of colored names, perhaps to brighten up the bleakness:
\par }\pard {\f4 a)}{\f4\cchs256  What former territory is now called Kalallit Nunaat?
\par }{\f4 \tab A}{\f4\cchs256 nswer: }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Greenland}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 b)}{\f4\cchs256   What is the capital of Northwest Territory?
\par }{\f4 \tab Answer:}{\f4\cchs256  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Yellowknife}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 c)}{\f4\cchs256   What is the capital of the Yukon Territory?
\par }{\f4 \tab A}{\f4\cchs256 nswer: }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Whitehorse}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par }{\f4 5}{\f4\cchs256 .  Name these places of Sailors Mythology (15 each): 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 a) }{\f4 This ship, universally considered a bad omen, is doomed to sail around the world and can never call to port.  Its captain made an impious oath to round the Cape of Good Hope.
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab Answer: The }{\f4\ul Flying Dutchman}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }\pard {\f4 b)}{\f4\cchs256  It is where a Monkee might keep his gym shorts and the sailor's name for the evil spirit of the sea share a name. If a sailor has gone here he has been buried at sea. 
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Davy Jones Locker}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par }{\f4 6.  }{\f4\cchs256 Identify these characters from Russian Literature (for 10 points -- each): 
\par }{\f4 a)}{\f4\cchs256  In Gogol's }{\i\f4\cchs256 The Inspector General}{\f4\cchs256 , who is thought to be the Inspector? 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4   }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Khlestakov}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 b)}{\f4\cchs256  In Dosteovsky's }{\i\f4\cchs256 The Idiot}{\f4\cchs256 , who is called The Idiot? 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\cchs256 Prince }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Myshkin}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 c)}{\f4\cchs256  In Dosteovsky's }{\i\f4\cchs256 Crime and Punishment}{\f4\cchs256 , who is the Criminal? 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  Rodion Romanovich }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Raskolnikov}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4 7.}{\f4\cchs256  Relay.  In this Relay question, each member of your team must answer at least one part without consulting your teammates.  A
s help, the captain may assign individuals to answer now knowing that the categories are: American History, English Literature, Chemistry, and Architecture. Five pts per part, ten for all five
\par }\pard {\f4 a)}{\f4\cchs256  American History:  He was the first President of the United States under the Articles of Confederation
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\cchs256 John }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Hanson}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }\pard {\f4 b)}{\f4\cchs256  English Literature: This British Prime Minister won the Nobel Prize for Literature, mostly for his works about World War II}{\f4 .}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\cchs256 Winston}{\f4\ul\cchs256  Churchill}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }\pard {\f4 c)}{\f4\cchs256  Chemistry:  }{\f4 One of the three stable forms of carbon, the other two being}{\f4\cchs256  graphite and diamond, it is shaped like a soccerball and named for the discoverer of the geodesic dome.
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Buckyballs}{\f4\cchs256  or Buckminster}{\f4\ul\cchs256  Fullerenes}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }\pard {\f4 d)}{\f4\cchs256  Architecture: Designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, this house in Bear Run Pennsylvania is perhaps the most famous in the world because of its cantilever over a local stream
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Falling Water}{\f4\cchs256  or the }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Kaufman House}{\f4\cchs256 
\par  
\par }{\f4 8}{\f4\cchs256 .  Identify the following bands from a brief description 10 each
\par }\pard {\f4 a)}{\f4\cchs256  One member\'d5s father was chief of staff for the CIA's Political Action Staff, before founding this band in 1977 he played with "Curved Air".  Another got his nickname from playing soccer.
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\cchs256 The }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Police}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 b)}{\f4\cchs256  In Spanish this band's name means "The Wolves"
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer: }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Los Lobos}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }\pard {\f4 c)}{\f4\cchs256  They began as the "M&B Five" playing pubs in England owned by Miller and Butler Breweries before changing their name, but keeping the M and B initials
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Moody Blues}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 9.  Vicky Verbal is studying for the SAT\'d5s and sees some similar words which she cannot correctly
 identify.  Help her out, identify the following as an Epitaph, Epithet, Epithalamium,  Epiphany, or an Epigram for five points each and five more for all correct: 
\par }\pard {\f4 a)}{\f4\cchs256  A short satirical poem or statement\tab  \tab \tab Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Epigram}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 b)}{\f4\cchs256  A song or poem written to honor a bride or bridegroom \tab Answer: }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Epithalamium}{\f4\cchs256 
\par c) A word or phrase used to characterize a person or thing \tab Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Epithet}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 d)}{\f4\cchs256  A verse inscription on a gravestone \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Epitaph}{\f4\cchs256   
\par }{\f4 e)}{\f4\cchs256  An intuitive perception of the essential nature of something}{\f4 .\tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer: }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Epiphany}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 1}{\f4 0}{\f4\cchs256 
.  Pen and Paper may be needed. Given the following five genuses of bacteria: Mycobacterium ... Rickettsia  ... Yersina ... Salmonella ... Vibrio, tell which is the causal agent for the following diseases: (10 points each) 
\par }\pard {\f4 a)}{\f4\cchs256  Typhoid Fever\tab \tab \tab \tab Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Salmonella}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 b)}{\f4\cchs256  Bubonic Plague\tab \tab \tab Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Yersina}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 c)}{\f4\cchs256  Rocky Mountain Spotted fever\tab \tab Answer: }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Rickettsia}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par 11.  Rome was sacked several times. Of what }{\f4 people}{\f4\cchs256  were the following men, who led sacks of Rome, king: 
\par }{\f4 a)}{\f4\cchs256  Alaric\tab \tab \tab \tab }{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Visigoth}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 b)}{\f4\cchs256  Gaiseric\tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Vandal}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 c)}{\f4\cchs256  }{\f4 Brennus}{\f4\cchs256 \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f4\ul Gaul}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par 12. Identify these }{\f4 ancient Greek o}{\f4\cchs256 racles: 
\par }\pard {\f4 a)}{\f4\cchs256  }{\f4 FTP, }{\f4\cchs256 Apollo established himself here by killing the Python, and so the priestess who gave the oracles was called Pythia. 
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Delphic}{\f4\cchs256  Oracle or Oracle at }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Delphi}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }\pard {\f4 b) F20P, }{\f4\cchs256 
Located in Northwestern Greece, it is the oldest Oracle known to the Greeks. It was centered on an oak tree and its messages were given through the rustling of leaves, the cooing of pigeons, the babbling of a nearby brook, and by the gongs of pri
estesses who were called "pigeons". What is this oracle of Zeus? 
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\cchs256 Oracle at }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Dodona}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 1}{\f4 3}{\f4\cchs256 .  Unlike the major televsion networks, PBS depends upon its affiliates to originate programming. Identify the city of broadcast of the following eastern PBS stations (five points each): 
\par }\pard {\f4 a)}{\f4\cchs256  WGBH\tab \tab Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Boston}{\f4\cchs256  
\par b) WNET\tab \tab Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 New York}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 c)}{\f4\cchs256  WTTW\tab \tab Answer: }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Chicago}{\f4\cchs256  }{\f4 
\par d)}{\f4\cchs256  WQED\tab \tab Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Pittsburgh}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 e)}{\f4\cchs256  WETA\tab \tab Answer: }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Washington}{\f4\cchs256  
\par f) WHYY\tab \tab Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Wilmington}{\f4\cchs256  or }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Philadelphia}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4 14}{\f4\cchs256 .  Senator Windbag wants the Federal government to fund a road for his state to connect the towns of Small and Smaller.
\par }\pard {\f4 a)}{\f4\cchs256  What kind of project is this unessential appropriation?
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 pork}{\f4\cchs256 -barrel
\par }\pard {\f4 b)}{\f4\cchs256  Windbag cannot obtain this highway without trading votes with Senator Gasbag, who wants a dam in his state.  What is this process called?
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\cchs256 log-}{\f4\ul\cchs256 rolling}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }\pard {\f4 c)}{\f4\cchs256   Some constituents are waiting in the hallway waiting to see Windbag to ensure that the highway has an exit in their town.  This process is  called what?
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 lobbying}{\f4\cchs256 \tab 
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 1}{\f4 5}{\f4\cchs256 .  Many of America's favorite tunes originated in the civil war era. Identify the writers of the following pieces of music associated with the Old South (for 10 points -- each): 
\par }\pard {\f4 a)}{\f4\cchs256  }{\f4 \ldblquote }{\f4\cchs256 Shoe Fly Don't Bother Me}{\f4 \rdblquote }{\f4\cchs256  and  }{\f4 \ldblquote }{\f4\cchs256 John Brown's Body}{\f4 \rdblquote }{\f4\cchs256   
\par }{\f4 \tab A}{\f4\cchs256 nswer:}{\f4  }{\f4\cchs256 Thomas }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Bishop}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 b)}{\f4\cchs256  }{\f4 \ldblquote }{\f4\cchs256 O Susanna}{\f4 \rdblquote }{\f4\cchs256  and }{\f4 \ldblquote }{\f4\cchs256 The Camptown Races}{\f4 \rdblquote }{\f4\cchs256  
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\cchs256 Stephen Collins }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Foster}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 c)}{\f4\cchs256  }{\f4 \ldblquote }{\f4\cchs256 The Blue Tail Fly (or Jimmy Crack Corn)}{\f4 \rdblquote }{\f4\cchs256  and }{\f4 \ldblquote }{\f4\cchs256 Old Dan Tucker}{\f4 \rdblquote }{\f4\cchs256  
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\cchs256 Daniel Decatur }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Emmett}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj {\f4 16.}{\f4\cchs256  Identify this author 30-20-10 
\par }\pard \qj {\f4 30:}{\f4\cchs256  In 1908, he had four plays running simultaneously on the London stage. In 1914 he worked on an ambulence unit in Flanders. For much of the war he roamed the South Pacific. 
\par }{\f4 20: }{\f4\cchs256 He was born in Paris, and his mother died when he was eight as a result of stillbirth, as a result, stillbirths featured prominently in his writings. He trained as a doctor, and wrote the novel }{\i\f4\cchs256 Liza of Lambeth}{
\f4\cchs256  in 1897. 
\par }\pard \qj {\f4 10:}{\f4\cchs256  In 1915 he wrote }{\i\f4 O}{\i\f4\cchs256 f Human Bondage}{\f4\cchs256  and in 1930}{\f4  }{\i\f4\cchs256 Cakes and Ale}{\f4 .}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:\tab Somerset }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Maugham}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 1}{\f4 7}{\f4\cchs256 . As most academic competitors can tell you, reading too much leads to near-sightedness.  }{\f4 Identify the following vision problems, for ten points each}{\f4\cchs256 :
\par }\pard {\f4 a) This condition results when the curvature of the cornea or the lens is asymmetrical.}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4   }{\f4\ul Astigmatism}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 b)}{\f4\cchs256  If you are nearsigted, your eye focuses in front of the retina.  This is called what?
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Myopia}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }\pard {\f4\cchs256 c) If you read too little, perhaps this condition ensues, when the eye is too short and the image forms behind the retina.
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Hyperopia}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 
\par 18}{\f4\cchs256 .  Answer these literary questions (ten points each) 
\par a) In Thornton Wilder\'d5s }{\i\f4\cchs256 Our Town}{\f4\cchs256 , what is Our Town?
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Grover's Corners}{\f4\cchs256  New Hampshire
\par }{\f4 b)}{\f4\cchs256  In Charles Dickens\'d5 }{\i\f4\cchs256 Our Mutual Friend}{\f4\cchs256 , who is Our Mutual Friend? 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\cchs256 John }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Harmon}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 c)}{\f4\cchs256  In Henry James\'d5 }{\i\f4\cchs256 What Maisie Knew}{\f4\cchs256 , what did Maisie know? 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4  }{\f4\cchs256 Both her stepmother and her stepfather were committing }{\f4\ul\cchs256 adultery}{\f4\cchs256 
\par 
\par 19. On what Mediterranean island will you find the following cities:
\par }{\f4 a)}{\f4\cchs256   Ajaccio
\par }{\f4 \tab A}{\f4\cchs256 nswer: }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Corsica}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 b)}{\f4\cchs256  Cagliari
\par }{\f4 \tab A}{\f4\cchs256 nswer: }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Sardinia}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }{\f4 c) P}{\f4\cchs256 alermo
\par }{\f4 \tab A}{\f4\cchs256 nswer:  }{\f4\ul\cchs256 Sicily}{\f4 
\par 
\par }\pard {\f4 20}{\f4\cchs256 .  PROBLEM For thirty points, find the pH of a 0.1 molar solution of Hydrogen Chloride, with a density of 1.64 grams per liter at Standard Temperature and Pressure. (you have 15 seconds): 
\par }\pard {\f4 \tab }{\f4\cchs256 Answer:}{\f4   }{\f4\ul\cchs256 1}{\f4\cchs256 : (pH = - log(0.1)= - (- 1) = 1)
\par }{\f4 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par aa
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par }\pard {\f4 a
\par aa
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par aa
\par aa
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a}{\f4\cchs256 
\par }}