{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman{\*\falt  Times};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Ronald L. Usher}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy10\hr14\min28}{\printim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min12}{\version1}{\edmins28}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}
{\vern49197}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \f4\fs20 Cal Classic IV
\par Packet by Mike Usher, Jason Hong, and Emil Thomas Chuck
\par 
\par {\ul Tossups}
\par 
\par 1.  The atmospheric concentration of this gas is now about 300 parts per million, having increased over the past few decades. Its weakly acidic aqueous solution is called carb
onic acid. Easily liquefied by compression and cooling, it is a raw material for photosynthesis. FTP, what is this linear triatomic compound that provides the sparkle in carbonated beverages?
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Carbon Dioxide}
\par 
\par 2. One of his earlier novels, {\i Roderick Hudson}
, dealt with an American sculptor in Italy and coincided with the beginning of his own expatriation.  Americans in Europe figured in many of his early works, and he earned his reputation for his stories of \ldblquote self-made\rdblquote 
 American women who insist on American standards in European society, such as the 1878 work, {\i Daisy Miller}.  FTP, name this realist whose attention shifted to social reformers in {\i The Bostonians} and who later wrote {\i The Ambassadors} and {\i 
The Turn of the Screw}.
\par \tab Answer: Henry {\ul James}
\par 
\par 3.  Until around the 1700s, this instrument was refered to as the "sackbut."  The tenor, the most common, is tuned to B-flat, but the orchestral versions have a coil of extra tubing in the loop of the bell, making it possible to tune the instrument to F. 
FTP, name this brass instrument recognized for its characteristic slide.\line \tab Answer: {\ul Trombone}
\par 
\par 4.  The governments of over 100 different countries employ this in some form, although the way it is determined varies widely.  In Mexico, it is only determined for Mexico City, while in the UK all households are covered except for those headed by a pensi
oner or someone with an income above a certain amount.  Interpretation of it is complicated by the fact that the particular goods that people buy change over time.  FTP, name this economic indicator used to measure cost of living.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul C}onsumer {\ul P}rice {\ul I}ndex
\par 
\par 5. It is a musical texture common in the Webern and post-Webern styles, in which instruments tend to play only one to three notes at a time, and the longer melodic lines are made from these constantly changing instrumental colors. FTP, what is this term w
hich also refers to the painting technique of Georges Seurat, who used dots of color to build of textures?
\par \tab Answer: {\ul pointillism}
\par 
\par 6. A dream regarding his birth was interpre
ted as an evil portent, and he was consequently expelled from his family when he was an infant. Exposed and left to die, he was raised as a shepherd, unknown to his parents. As a young man, he entered a boxing contest at a Trojan festival and defeated Pri
am\rquote s other sons. After his identity was revealed, he was received home again by Priam. FTP, name this man who caused the siege of Troy by abducting Helen.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Paris}
\par 
\par 7.  Scientists have genetically manipulated this plant to produce effective human anti
bodies against herpes viruses, and have shown that monkeys and rats with diets with high amounts of protein from this plant are better protected from cancer and pain. For ten points, name this plant better known as the source of tofu.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Soybean}
\par 
\par 8. This mountain has three peaks, including Liberty Cap and Point Success, covers 100 square miles, and is surrounded by the largest single-mountain glacier system in the continental U.S..  Its summit was first sighted by George Vancouver in 1792 and rise
s 14,410 feet above sea level, making it the second highest mountain in the continental U.S..  FTP, name this mountain 40 miles from Tacoma, Washington, which shares its name with a Prince of Monaco.
\par \tab Answer: Mount {\ul Rainier}
\par 
\par 9. This category of organisms includes the ciliata, which are used to gauge water pollution levels; the foraminifera, many of which are useful as index fossils; and the dinoflagellates, which cause red tide; as well as slime molds and green algae.  Genera
 in this category include {\i Plasmodium}, which causes malaria, and the photosynthetic heterotroph, {\i Euglena}
.  FTP, name this kingdom, whose members generally have nothing in common except that they are eukaryotes that are not animals, plants, or fungi.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Protist}a (accept {\ul Protoctist}a)
\par 
\par 10. Matthew Arnold first used this word in its modern sense by adapting it from a German  term applied by the university students to the townspeople, meaning \ldblquote outsiders.\rdblquote 
 For 10 points, what is this term referring to ignorant, ill-behaved persons lacking in culture or artistic appreciation, who in the Old Testament were inveterate enemies of the Israelites that fought against Samson and David?
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Philistine}s
\par 
\par 11. Its main theme is the refined life of the bourgeoisie, who combine an open-minded attitude toward behavior with a respect for convention in such stories as \ldblquote A Garden in January,\rdblquote  \ldblquote The Eaten Heart,\rdblquote  \ldblquote 
Calandrino and the Heliotrope,\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Titus and Gisippus.\rdblquote   In the course of a fortnight, each character has a turn as king or queen over the others, a
nd it is set in a countryside to which the characters fled from the plague.  FTP, name this work consisting of 100 stories, written in about 1350 by Giovanni Bocaccio.
\par \tab Answer: {\i The }{\i\ul Decameron} ({\i Il }{\i\ul Decamerone})
\par 
\par 12. He was particularly offended with the preamble \ldblquote We the people,\rdblquote  asking \ldblquote Who authorized them to speak the language of We the people?\rdblquote 
 He was first a failure as a planter and storekeeper, but gained success as a lawyer and politician. Although this Virginian was elected to the Constitutional Conventio
n in 1787, he refused to serve. For 10 points, who was this five time governor of Virginia, best known for a speech at an extralegal session of the Virginia Assembly in March 1775 in which he said, \ldblquote Give me liberty or give me death\rdblquote ?

\par \tab Answer: Patrick {\ul Henry}
\par 
\par 13. A native of Chateauroux, he attended the French National Popular Theater as an acting student free of charge, debuting in the Albert Camus play {\i Caligula}. For ten points, name this popular French movie actor who starred in {\i Jean de Florette}, {
\i Germinal}, {\i Cyrano de Bergerac}, and {\i Green Card}.
\par \tab Answer: G\'e9rard {\ul Depardieu}\line 
\par 14. To the north of it lies a sea, and the Qattara Depression in the south, a salt marsh below sea level. General Auchinleck took over personal command on June 23, and successfully defended the British lines against German and Italian forces. Later that s
ame year, Lieutenant-General Montgomery was put in charge of the Eighth Army and foiled a second attempt to break through the British lines. FTP where did these 1942 battles take place, that protected Egypt from the Axis forces?
\par \tab Answer: {\ul El Alamein}
\par 
\par 15. This play features a Memphis lawyer named Gooper, his wife Mae and their five kids who wish to inherit Mae's father's 28,000 acre estate once he dies. In the foreground is a tormented ex-football star still haunted by the suicide of his best friend Sk
ipper. For ten points, name this Pulitzer-prize winning play about the dysfunctional Pollitt family featuring Brick, his wife Maggie, and his father Big Daddy, written by Tenessee Williams.
\par \tab Answer: {\i\ul Cat on a Hot Tin Roof}\line 
\par 16. He held the throne for 46 years, having served as governor first of Kaffa and later of Manisa before his accession at the age of 25.  Known for his sense of justice, like the Greek ruler Solon 2000 years earlier, he was called the \ldblquote Lawgiver,
\rdblquote  and cult
ure fluorished under his reign thanks in part to the poet Baki and the architect Sinan.  His military exploits gained the most attention, though, as after defeating Belgrade, Rhodes, and Hungary he conquered Iraq and used an expanded na
vy to take Tripoli.  FTP, name this son of Selim I who served as sultan from 1520-1566.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Suleiman I} (accept \ldblquote Suleiman the Magnificent\rdblquote )
\par 
\par 17. He avenges the death of his father by killing King Pellinore, kills Sir Lamerok, who is the lover of his mother, and kills his cousin Sir Uwayne, who is the son of Morgan Le Fay. However, when Sir Lancelot unwittingly kills his youngest brother, Sir G
areth, he swears revenge. FTP who is this knight of the Round Table also featured in a story with the Green Knight?
\par \tab Answer: Sir {\ul Gawain}
\par 
\par 18. {\i In the work Tales of a Grandfather}
, Sir Walter Scott tells us that it has always been deemed a foul crime in Scotland for anyone of this name to harm a spider. This is because a leader with this name was said to have watched a spider fail six times to fix its web on a beam in the ceiling,
 similar to how the leader had failed six times to defeat the English. For 10 points, who is this Scottish leader that succeeded in his seventh try, becoming a Scottish national hero at the Batt
le of Bannockburn, nine years after the death of William Wallace?
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Robert} the Bruce
\par 
\par 19. He became the brother-in-law of Francis Scott Key in 1806 and was a Federalist until 1812.  After a term in the Maryland State Senate, he fought vigorously against the Bank of the United States as Attorney General under Jackson.  In spite of oppositio
n from Clay, Calhoun, and Webster, he was appointed to the Supreme Court in 1836, and his decisions included Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, Ableman v. Booth, and {\i ex parte}
 Merryman.  FTP, name this fifth Chief Justice, famous for his opinion in the Dred Scott case.
\par \tab Answer: Roger {\ul Taney} (TAH-knee)
\par 
\par 20.  In its most general form, the equation for this scientific law reads, \ldblquote J equals sigma times E,\rdblquote 
 where sigma is a proportionality constant known as the conductance.  Using a complex number called the impedance allows the more familiar form of the law 
to hold in both alternating and direct current circuits.  FTP, name this law relating the current and voltage in a circuit, most familiar in the form, \ldblquote V equals I times R.\rdblquote 
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Ohm}\rquote s Law 
\par 
\par 21.  This art movement was inspired by van Gogh\rquote 
s statement that instead of trying to represent his subject realistically, he uses color arbitrarily to express himself more powerfully.  It received its name when an art critic remarked at an exhibition tha
t a conventional statue surrounded by several bold paintings was like Donatello among the wild beasts..  FTP, name this art movement whose exponents included Andr\'e9 Derain, Georges Braque, and Henri Matisse.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Fauvism}
\par 
\par 22. When a witch caught a man stealing lettuce from her garden for his wife, the couple agreed as punishment to give the witch their first-born. For ten points, name the fairy tale character they gave up whose name means "lettuce", known for being trapped
 in a tower and having very long hair.\line \tab Answer: {\ul Rapunzel}
\par 
\par 23. While in his mid-20s, James Frazer\rquote s {\i The Golden Bough} inspired this man to study anthropology, and, much later, he wrote the introduction to Jomo Kenyatta\rquote s thesis, {\i Facing Mount Kenya}
.  In the intervening years, his fieldwork led to such works as {\i The} {\i Father in Primitive Psychology} and {\i Argonauts of the Western Pacific}, the latter of which was a treatment of the {\i kula}
 ring.  FTP, name this anthropologist, a major proponent of functionalism who, during World War I, studied the Trobriand Islanders.
\par \tab Answer: Bronislaw {\ul Malinowski}
\par 
\par {\ul 
\par \page Bonuses}
\par 
\par 1.  Identify the following political positions in the Roman Republic, FTPE:
\par a) The position, existent from 494 BC, fille
d by ten plebeians at a time, whose duty it was to protect people against the acts of magistrates, who introduced most of the legislation in the later stages of the Republic, and who had veto power over the acts of consuls.
\par \tab Answer: plebeian {\ul tribunes}
\par b) The position, filled by eight magistrates at a time, which was roughly equivalent to the position of US Supreme Court justice.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul praetor}
\par c) The magistrate initially in charge of registering citizens and their property, whose role later expanded to supervising senatorial rolls and moral conduct.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul censor
\par 
\par }2. Name the following elements, for ten points each:
\par a) This element has the highest electronegativity.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Fluorine}
\par b) This element, with atomic number 83, is the element with the highest atomic number to have a non-radioactive isotope.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Bismuth}
\par c) Name either of the two elements that can have a valence of 8.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Ruthenium} or {\ul Osmium}
\par 
\par 3. Identify the following media or techniques of painting, FTPE:
\par a) The dominant medium throughout the world until the Renaissance, which uses dry pigment with an emulsion, traditionally either egg yolk or egg white, and thinned with water.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul tempera}
\par b) The method of fixing pigments using heated wax, used extensively in classical Greece.  Van Gogh, Hayet, and Johns have all used a simplified version of the technique.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul encaustic} painting
\par c) The method of painting water-based pigments onto freshly applied plaster.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul fresco} painting
\par 
\par 4. Identify the following secretary-generals of the UN, FTPE
\par a)  After he died, riots broke out in his home country of Burma over the disposal of his body.  He held the position from 1962-1971.
\par \tab Answer: U {\ul Thant}
\par b) This Nowegian, the first secretary-general, fought against the expulsion of nationalist China from the UN, and resigned his office after the Soviet Union ceased to recognize his authority.
\par \tab Answer: Trygve {\ul Lie}
\par c) Serving from 1972-1981, this Austrian oversaw relief efforts in Nicaragua and Guatemala and peacekeeping operations in Yemen, South Yemen, Angola, and Guinea.
\par \tab Answer: Kurt {\ul Waldheim}
\par 
\par 5.  Answer the following about the epic {\i Beowulf}, FTP each:
\par a)  Name the monster who has been ravaging the mead hall, Heorot, for 12 years before Beowulf arrives and kills him.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Grendel}
\par b) Name the king of Denmark to whom Heorot belongs.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Hrothgar}
\par c) Name the kingdom of Southern Sweden from which Beowulf comes.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Geats}
\par 
\par 6.  Answer the following about Charlemagne, FTP each:
\par \pard a) Give the day, month, and year, all or nothing, on which Charlemagne was named Holy Roman Emperor.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul December 25, 800}
\par b) Name Charlemagne\rquote s father, the first king of France\rquote s Carolingian dynasty.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Pepin III} (accept {\ul Pepin the Short})
\par \pard c) Give the term for the knights, including Roland and Oliver, who accompanied Charlemagne in medieval poems about him.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul Paladins} (accept The {\ul Twelve Peers} or Les {\ul Douze Pairs})
\par 
\par 7. Identify the following machines important in the history of the textile industry, FTPE:
\par \pard a) The first practical application of multiple spinning by a machine, invented by James Hargreaves in 1767 and named for Hargreaves\rquote  daughter..
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul Spinning Jenny}
\par \pard b) The machine invented in 1769 which which produced a cotton yarn suitable for wrap, which is stronger than the thread produced by the spinning jenny.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul Water Frame}
\par \pard c) The device invented by Samuel Crompton in 1779 which simultaneously drew out and twisted cotton fibers fed into it, whose name reflects that it is a mix between the spinning jenny and the water frame.
\par \pard \tab Answer: spinning {\ul mule}
\par 
\par 8.  Identify the following philosophers from works, FTPE:
\par a) {\i Critique of Pure Reason}\tab \tab \tab Answer: Immanuel {\ul Kant}
\par b) {\i Discourse on Method}\tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: Rene {\ul Descartes}
\par c) {\i Being and Nothingness}\tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: Jean-Paul {\ul Sartre}
\par 
\par 9.  Answer the following related questions about a 20th century movement in music, FTP each:
\par \pard a) Name the innovative American composer best known for the operas {\i Einstein on the Beach}, {\i Satyagraha}, and {\i The Voyage}.  He also made an appearance as the musical director for the Christmas pageant in the 1997 Christmas episode of {\i 
South Park}.
\par \pard \tab Answer: Philip {\ul Glass}
\par \pard b) Name the American composer best known for the 1952 work \ldblquote Four Minutes and Thirty-Three Seconds,\rdblquote  in which the performers remain completely silent on stage for four minutes and thirty-three seconds.
\par \pard \tab Answer: John {\ul Cage}
\par \pard c) Cage and Glass are both associated with an artistic movement which attempts to explore the essential elements of art and music, rejecting a traditional treatment of form and development with an exploration of rhythm.  Name that movement.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul Minimalism}
\par 
\par 10.  Identify the following African authors, F15P each:
\par \pard a) This Nigerian, a member of the Yoruba culture, had been exiled from his home country until the 1998 death of its dictator, Sani Abacha.  He won the 1986 Nobel Prize in literature and wrote such works as {\i The Open Sore of a Continent} and {\i 
A Dance of the Forests}.
\par \pard \tab Answer: Wole {\ul Soyinka}
\par \pard b) The author of such novels as {\i Cry, the Beloved Country} and {\i Ah But Your Land is Beautiful}, both of which deal with the tragedy of racism in his homeland of South Africa.
\par \pard \tab Answer: Alan {\ul Paton}
\par 
\par 11. Identify the following figures in 20th century Spanish history, FTPE:
\par \pard a) The King who forced dictator Miguel Primo de Rivera\rquote s resignation in 1930 but who abdicated the following year.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul Alfonso XIII}
\par b) The still-dead fascist dictator of Spain from 1939 to 1975.
\par \tab Answer: Francisco {\ul Franco}
\par \pard c) The current king, who took the Spanish throne two days after the death of Franco.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Juan Carlos}
\par \pard 
\par 12.  Identify the following 20th century American female authors from works, FTP each:
\par a) {\i The Edible Woman}, {\i The Handmaid\rquote s Tale}
\par \tab Answer: Margaret {\ul Atwood}
\par b) {\i The Joy Luck Club}, {\i The Kitchen-God\rquote s Wife}
\par \tab Answer: Amy {\ul Tan}
\par c) {\i The Bell Jar}, {\i Crossing the Water}
\par \tab Answer: Sylvia {\ul Plath}
\par 
\par 13. Identify the following communist secret police agencies, for the stated number of points:
\par \pard a) F5P, the committee of state security which was the head secret police agency in the Soviet Union until the fall of the USSR in 1991.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul KGB}
\par \pard b) FTP, the Soviet organization whose name means, \ldblquote People\rquote s Commisariat of Internal Affairs\rdblquote  and which carried out the purges of 1934 and 1937-38.
\par \pard \tab Answer: {\ul NKVD}
\par c) F15P, The secret police of East Germany from 1950-1990.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Stasi} or {\ul Staatsicherheit}
\par 
\par 14.  Identify the following 18th century English painters, FTP each:
\par \pard a) The artist regarded as England\rquote s greatest pictorial satirist for works such as \ldblquote The Rake\rquote s Progress,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Marriage \'c1 la Mode.\rdblquote 
\par \pard \tab Answer: William {\ul Hogarth}
\par \pard b)  One of the first painters to depict English scenery, this painter is better known for portraits such as \ldblquote Blue Boy.\rdblquote 
\par \pard \tab Answer: Thomas {\ul Gainesborough}
\par \pard c) Regarded as the best English portraitist of the 18th century, this rival to Gainesbourough painted the likes of Samuel Johnson and Edmund Burke and served as the first president of the Royal Academy.
\par \pard \tab Answer: Joshua {\ul Reynolds}
\par 
\par 15. Given the Roman goddess, name her Greek equivalent, FTP each:
\par a) Diana
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Artemis}
\par b) Ceres
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Demeter}
\par c)  Minerva
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Athena}
\par \pard 
\par 16. Expand the following abbreviations encountered in biochemistry, FTP each:
\par \pard a) mRNA
\par \tab Answer: {\ul messenger ribonucleic acid}
\par b) ATP
\par \tab Answer: {\ul adenosine triphosphate}
\par c) RuBP
\par \tab Answer: {\ul ribulose biphosphate}
\par 
\par \pard 17. Identify the following works of English literature from their subtitles FTP each, or FFP if you need the author:
\par \pard a) 10: \ldblquote A novel without a hero\rdblquote 
\par 5: William Makepeace Thackeray
\par \tab Answer: {\i\ul Vanity Fair}
\par b) 10: \ldblquote or, What You Will\rdblquote 
\par 5: William Shakespeare
\par \tab Answer: {\i\ul Twelfth Night}
\par c) 10: \ldblquote or, Virtue Rewarded\rdblquote 
\par 5: Samuel Richardson
\par \tab Answer: {\i\ul Pamela}
\par 
\par \pard 18. Identify the following World War II conferences, each held during 1943, FTP each, or for 5 if you need the nation in which it was held:
\par a) 10: Stalin agrees to Churchill and Roosevelt\rquote s suggestion that he launch an eastern offensive to coincide with the Normandy invasion.
\par \pard 5: Iran
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Tehran}
\par \pard b) 10: Churchill and Roosevelt discuss the prospective invasion of Sicily, the apportionment of forces in the Pacific theater, and nuclear bomb research.
\par \pard 5: Morocco
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Casablanca}
\par \pard c) 10: In this conference, codenamed \ldblquote Quadrant,\rdblquote  Roosevelt and Churchill discussed the coordination of the invasions of Italy and France, but differences between American and British strategists had to be settled later at 
Moscow, Tehran, and Cairo.  Another conference was held in the same city in 1944.
\par \pard 5: Canada
\par \tab Answer: First {\ul Quebec}
\par 
\par 19. Name the countries from cities on a 10-5 basis:
\par a)\tab 10: Chittagong, Khulna
\par \tab 5: Dhaka
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Bangladesh}
\par b)\tab 10: Kwangju, Taejon, Inchon
\par \tab 5: Seoul
\par \tab Answer: {\ul South Korea}
\par c)\tab 10: San Cristobal, Barquisimeto, Maracaibo
\par \tab 5: Caracas
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Venezuela}
\par 
\par 20.  Identify the following scientists important in the early study of electricity and magnetism, FTP each:
\par \pard a) In 1786, this Italian biologist discovered that the leg muscles of frogs could be made to contract by exposing them to electricity.  He attributed this to \ldblquote animal electricity.\rdblquote 
\par \pard \tab Answer: Luigi {\ul Galvani}
\par \pard b)  This Italian physicist demonstrated the first electric battery in 1800.  The SI unit of electromotive force is named in his honor.
\par \pard \tab Answer: Alessandro {\ul Volta}
\par \pard c) In a demonstration in an April 1820 lecture, this Danish physicist discovered that a magnetic current will deflect a magnetized compass needle.
\par \pard \tab Answer: Hans Christian {\ul \'d8ersted}
\par 
\par 21. Identify the fathers of the following Biblical figures, FFPE:
\par a) Methuselah;\tab \tab \tab Answer: {\ul Enoch}
\par b) James the Greater;\tab \tab Answer: {\ul Zebedee}
\par c) John the Baptist;\tab \tab Answer: {\ul Zechariah}
\par d) David;\tab \tab \tab Answer: {\ul Jesse}
\par e) Jacob;\tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: {\ul Isaac}
\par f)) Noah\tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: {\ul Lamech}
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par ss
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par ss
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par ss
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par ss
\par s
\par s
\par ss
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par ss
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par ss
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par ss
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par ss
\par s
\par ss
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par s
\par }