{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman{\*\falt  Times};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Ronald L. Usher}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy11\hr11\min46}{\printim\yr1999\mo3\dy23\hr17\min24}{\version1}
{\edmins5}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49197}}\margt1152\margb1152 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \f4\fs20 Cal Classic IV
\par Packet by Mike Usher, Jason Hong, Emil Thomas Chuck, and Gaius Stern.
\par 
\par {\ul Tossups}
\par 
\par 1.  His principle states that the \ldblquote inertia of any body is determined by the distribution of the distant mass in the universe.\rdblquote  In other words, objects have inert
ia only because the rest of the mass of the universe causes them to possess it. His greatest influence was in philosophy, where he helped free Einstein from the absoluteness of Newtonian space-time. FTP, who is this Austrian physicist and philosopher whos
e name is associated with the speed of sound and a Gillette razor?
\par \tab Answer: Ernst {\ul Mach}
\par 
\par 2.  The principle behind this policy was reaffirmed by the Nine-Power treaty of 1922, but it was rendered meaningless as a result of the end of a civil war in 1949.  Motivated partly by American textile manufacturers\rquote 
 need for a market for their cheap cotton goods after the Spanish-American War, one of its stipulations was that imperial powers should grant free access to treaty ports.  FTP, name this policy which sought 
equal access to trading rights in China at the turn of the century, associated with U.S. Secretary of State John Hay.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Open Door} policy
\par 
\par 3. Mozart said of him, \ldblquote There is no one who can do it all -- to joke and to terrify, to evoke laughter and profound sentiment -- and all equally well, except [him].\rdblquote 
 His musical style was an inspiration for a work composed over 100 years after his death, Prokofiev\rquote s Classical Symphony. For ten points, name this prolific Austrian composer, regarded as father of the 
string quartet, who composed 104 symphonies, including the London Symphonies.\line \tab Answer: Franz Joseph {\ul Haydn}
\par 
\par 4. He seems to have a fateful fascination with the United States. In 1940, at 14, he sent a letter to FDR asking for a $10 bill, writing "I have not s
een a ten dollars bill green american and I would like to have one." Fifteen years later, he barnstormed the eastern United States raising money to launch his revolution. Returning triumphant in April 1959, he told "Meet the Press" that "I'm not intereste
d in staying in power one minute more than necessary." FTP, who is this leader of Cuba?
\par \tab Answer: Fidel {\ul Castro}
\par 
\par 5. He was initially modeled on and named after a martyred leader of the Lollards named John Oldcastle, but after Oldcastle\rquote s descendants protested
, he was renamed after a career soldier who had established a reputation for cowardice in the latter part of the Hundred Years\rquote 
 War.  In his first appearance, he acts as a father figure but in later plays is rejected, then dies, only to reappear in a fourth play about his romantic misadventures.  FTP, name this character in {\i Henry IV: Parts 1 and 2} and {\i Henry V}
, the protagonist of {\i The Merry Wives of Windsor}.
\par \tab Answer: Sir John {\ul Falstaff}
\par 
\par 6. This woman bore ten children in spite of her husband\rquote s attachment to hi
s mistress, Diane de Poitiers.  Her moderate influence on religious issues was seen in her Edicts of Amboise and Romorantin, the latter of which officially detached faith from allegiance.  On the death of her son Francis II in 1560, she gained the regency
 for another of her sons, Charles IX.  FTP, name this wife of French king Henry II and daughter of Lorenzo de Medici.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Catherine} de Medici
\par 
\par 7. To enliven her otherwise dull and sheltered life, she kept a journal in code, which was deciphered and pub
lished by Leslie Linder in 1966. She put most of her energies into conservation, sheep farming, and the Fabian socialist movement, but is best known for her children's stories. For 10 points, who is this writer and illustrator of{\i 
 The Tale of Peter Rabbit}?
\par \tab Answer: Beatrix {\ul Potter} Webb
\par 
\par 8. The concept was thought to have been introduced by the Normans following the invasion of 1066 and was an important factor in the establishment of common law. For ten points, name this judicial institution that is protected 
by the 7th Amendment to the Constitution and is the subject of the Reginald Rose novel, {\i Twelve Angry Men}.
\par \tab Answer: Trial by {\ul jury} (accept {\ul petit jury} but not {\ul grand jury})\line 
\par 9. He moved to Paris in 1823, obtained a clerkship, and began to write, becoming famous at age 27 with his play {\i Henri III}. With his purpose being to put the history of France into novels, he wrote {\i The Black Tulip}
, as well as spending two years in exile in Brussels, and helping Garibaldi in Italy. For 10 points, identify this author of {\i The Count of Monte Cristo} and {\i The 3 Musketeers}.
\par \tab Answer: Alexandre {\ul Dumas}, p\'e9re
\par 
\par 10.  The fifth step of this biological pathway results in the formation of succinic acid and the production of the molecule guanosine triphosophate.  Its final step is the combination of oxaloacetic acid with Acetyl CoA, and, taking place in the mitochond
rial matrix, the process produces FADH{\sub 2}, NADH, carbon dioxide, and ATP.  FTP, name this cyclical process in cellular respiration which follows glycolosis, discovered by Hans Krebs.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Citric Acid} cycle or {\ul Tricarboxylic acid} cycle (accept {\ul Krebs} cycle before end of question)
\par 
\par 11.  Judge John M. Woolsey allowed this book into the U.S. in 1933, deciding that the novel\rquote s alleged obscenity could be condoned on the grounds that the author\rquote s \ldblquote locale was Celtic and his season Spring.\rdblquote 
  In one chapter, the language goes through stages from Anglo-Saxon to modern English, while another chapter is laden with references to wind and is entitled Aeolus.  FTP, name this novel set on June 16, 1904,
 whose characters include Leopold and Molly Bloom, written by James Joyce.
\par \tab Answer: {\i\ul Ulysses}
\par 
\par 12.  Like polyethylene, this polymer is linearly structured, but instead of CH{\sub 2} its repeating unit is CF{\sub 2}
. Its full name is polytetrafluoroethylene, and since it retains its properties at temperatures up to 500 degrees it is well-suited for its use in wires, cables, motors, and generators.  FTP, identify this non-adhesive plastic, sometimes replaced by Silve
r Stone in frying pans.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Teflon} (accept {\ul polytetrafluoroethylene} on an early buzz)
\par 
\par 13. This city\rquote 
s nicknames range from The White City of the Americas to The Athens of America to The Cradle of Liberty.  Known as Choaque-Chaca by indiginous Indians, La Plata to the conquistadors, and Chiquisaca by nationalists, its usual name honors the 
chief lieutenant of Sim\'f3n Bol\'edvar.  FTP, name this city southeast of La Paz which is the legal capital of Bolivia.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Sucre}\line  
\par 14. At a one hundred mile square field known as Vigrid, two Jotuns will swallow the sun and m
oon and Nidhug will plunge into the void of Ginnungap. Tyr and Garm will kill each other as Heimdall blows the full blast on the Gjaller Horn. Yggdrasil will crack and crumble as the heroes rush out of Valhalla. For 10 points, what is this great final bat
tle between the gods and the giants in Norse mythology?
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Ragnarok}
\par 
\par 15.  A 1687 battle between Venetians and Turks destroyed the center of this building, which had been converted into a mosque in 1460, having spent the previous 1000 years as a Christ
ian church.  It held a great gold and ivory statue completed in 438 B.C., and many of its other sculptures were removed by Lord Elgin in the 19th century.  FTP, name this building built under the supervision of Phidias as a temple to Athena the Virgin, lo
cated on the Acropolis.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Parthenon}
\par 
\par 16.  In the 1920's he studied various body secretions and their effects on bacteria, and discovered a bacteriolytic enzyme that is present in serum, saliva, and tears, namely lysozyme. After accidentally leaving a
 dish of staphylococcus bacteria uncovered, he noticed certain clear areas in the culture, which he attributed to contamination by a mold. For 10 points, who is this cowinner of the 1945 Nobel Prize for physiology or medicine for his discovery of Penicill
in?
\par \tab Answer: Alexander {\ul Fleming}
\par 
\par 17. His father's background was Swiss and his mother's Basque, but he was brought up in Paris. He failed to win the Prix de Rome five times and left the Conservatoire to continue his life as a freelance musician. Many of his 
works show his fascination for things temporally or geographically distant, such as Valses nobles et sentimentales, Sheherazade, and Daphnis et Chloe. For 10 points, who is this French Impressionist composer of Bolero?
\par \tab Answer: Maurice {\ul Ravel}
\par 
\par 18. In Snorri Sturlson\rquote s {\i Younger Edda}
, they are classified into light and dark varieties, corresponding to the Scottish seelie court and unseelie court.  They were believed to use certain aboriginal Irish tools to injure cattle.  In the 18th Century, Scottish highlande
rs guarded their newborns for fear that these beings would steal them and replace them with changelings.  FTP, name these mischievous, volatile, dimunuitive anthropomorphic spirits who in literature have included a king in a Goethe poem, as well as the wi
zard Gandalf.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Elves} 
\par 
\par 19.  This book identifies hunting, pastoralism, feudalism, and commercial interdependence as the four stages of social organization and argues that because the feudal stage has ended, the government should stop constraining fr
ee enterprise.  Its most famous phrase was used in its author\rquote s previous book, {\i The Theory of Moral Sentiments}, published in 1759.  FTP, name this book which initiated classical British economics with its notion of the \ldblquote 
invisible hand,\rdblquote  puclished in 1776 by Adam Smith.
\par \tab Answer: {\i An Inquiry to the Nature and Causes of the }{\i\ul Wealth of Nations}
\par 
\par 20. This term had been used at least as early as the 1840s to describe a worthless farm animal, but it was later applied to a sector of the population which probably amount
ed to 20% of the electorate.  In the deep south, most such people were members of the planter-merchant aristocracy, while further north they tended to be hill-country farmers who had sympathized with the Union during the war.  FTP, give this term, used to
 denote a southerner who supported Republican Reconstruction policies, complementing carpetbaggers from the north.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Scalawag}
\par 
\par 21. It was written between the years 1833 and 1850 and published anyonymously in 1850. Consisting of 131 sections, a prolog
ue, and an epilogue, this chiefly elegiac work reflects the Victorian struggle to reconcile traditional religious faith with the emerging theories of evolution and modern geology. For 10 points, what is this poem by Alfred, Lord Tennyson, written in mourn
ing over the death of his close friend Arthur Henry Hallam?
\par \tab Answer: \ldblquote {\ul In Memoriam}\rdblquote 
\par 
\par 22. As a congressman during the Civil War, he actively opposed President Lincoln\rquote s suspension of {\i habeas corpus}, and after the war he proposed the \ldblquote Ohio idea,\rdblquote  in which Civil
 War bonds would be redeemed for paper currency instead of gold, a proposal which alienated eastern Democrats and cost him the 1868 presidential nomination.  FTP, name this man, George McClellan\rquote 
s running mate in 1864, whose name is most famously attached to an 1883 act which reformed the civil service system.
\par \tab Answer: George Hunt {\ul Pendleton}
\par 
\par 23. Part of the name of this family of elements derives from the medieval term for substances insoluble in water and unchanged by fire.  They are all grayish white in c
olor and are malleable, and due to their low electronegativity never occur as pure metals in nature; four of them were first isolated in 1808 by Davy.  FTP, name this family including strontium, radium and barium, whose elements have full {\i s}
 subshells and comprise group II-A of the periodic table.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Alkaline-earth} metals (prompt on \ldblquote Group II-A\rdblquote ; do not accept or prompt on \ldblquote alkali metals\rdblquote )
\par 
\par \page {\ul Bonuses}
\par 
\par 1. Identify the following ecumenical councils, FTPE:
\par a) The council which met intermittently from 1545 to 1563 and is associated with the Counter-reformation.
\par \tab Answer: Council of {\ul Trent}
\par b) The first ecumenical council, called by Constantine I, which condemned Arianism.
\par \tab Answer: Council of {\ul Nicaea}
\par c) The council convoked by Pius IX which asserted papal infallibility.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul First Vatican} council (accept {\ul Vatican I})
\par 
\par 2. Identify the following photographers, FTPE:
\par a) The 19th century British portrait photographer known for her renderings of female beauty, as in her protraits of \ldblquote Ellen Terry\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Mrs. Herbert Duckworth.\rdblquote 
\par \tab Answer: Julia Margaret {\ul Cameron}
\par b) The German-born photojournalist who covered the rise of Hitler and who in 1937 came to the U.S., becoming the chief photographer for {\i Life} magazine.  He is most famous for the picture of a sailor kissing a nurse in Times Square on V-J Day.
\par \tab Answer: Alfred {\ul Eisenstaedt}
\par c) The early-20th century American photographer best known for a 400-print series of his wife, Georgia O\rquote Keeffe.
\par \tab Answer: Alfred {\ul Stieglitz}
\par 
\par 3. Identify the following works of Jane Austen, FTPE:
\par a) The novel, which inspired the movie {\i Clueless}, about a woman who marries George Knightley after a series of failed attempts at matchmaking.
\par \tab Answer: {\i\ul Emma}
\par b) The novel in which, seven years after being unable to win the hand of Anne Elliot due to her parents\rquote  snobbery, Frederick Wentworth returns from the Napoleonic Wars with enough money and status to be an eligible suitor.
\par \tab Answer: {\i\ul Persuasion}
\par c) The 1811 work which contrasts the reaction of two sisters, Elinor and Marianne Dashwood, to the desertions of their suitors, Edward Ferrars and John Willoughby.
\par \tab Answer: {\i\ul Sense and Sensibility}
\par 
\par 4.  Answer the following about Zoroastrianism for ten points each.
\par a) Name the sacred book of Zoroastrianism
\par \tab Answer: Zend {\ul Avesta}
\par b) Name the leader of the good spirits.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Ahura Mazda}
\par c) Name the leader of the evil spirits
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Ahriman}
\par 
\par \pard \tx720 5.  Identify the following moons of the solar system, for the stated number of points:
\par a) FFP, Jupiter\rquote s largest moon, also the largest moon in the solar system.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Ganymede}
\par b) FFP, The innermost of Jupiter\rquote s four Galilean moons, known for its high volcanic activity.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Io}
\par c) FTP, Uranus\rquote  largest moon.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Titania}
\par d) FTP, the smaller of Mars\rquote  two moons.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Deimos}
\par \pard 
\par 6.  Identify the following Greek authors from works, FFP each:
\par a) {\i Theogony}, {\i Works and Days}
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Hesiod}
\par b) {\i Lysistrata}, {\i Clouds}
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Aristophanes}
\par c) {\i The Suppliant Women}, the {\i Oresteia} trilogy
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Aeschylus}
\par d) {\i Bacchae}, {\i Medea}
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Euripides}
\par e) The \ldblquote Philippics,\rdblquote  speeches delivered against Philip II of Macedon
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Demosthenes}
\par f) {\i The Idylls}
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Theocritus}
\par 
\par 7.  Identify the following books by muckrakers, FTPE:
\par a) Ida Tarbell\rquote s 1904 book, known as one of the most thorough accounts of the rise of a business monopoly.
\par \tab Answer: {\i\ul  History of the Standard Oil Company}
\par b) Upton Sinclair\rquote s 1906 novel about the meatpacking industry.
\par \tab Answer: {\i The }{\i\ul Jungle}
\par c) Lincoln Steffens\rquote  1906 work about corrupt city and state politics.
\par \tab Answer: {\i\ul The Shame of the Cities}
\par 
\par 8.  Given the name of an ion, give its chemical formula and charge, FFP per answer:
\par a) nitrate
\par \tab Answers: {\ul NO}{\ul\sub 3}, {\ul minus} 1
\par b) hydronium
\par \tab Answer: {\ul H}{\ul\sub 3}{\ul O}, {\ul plus} 1
\par c) permanganate
\par \tab Answers: {\ul MnO}{\ul\sub 4}, {\ul minus} 1
\par 
\par 9.  Identify the following works of Beethoven, FTP each:
\par a) His only opera.
\par \tab Answer: {\i\ul Fidelio}
\par b) His last symphony.
\par \tab Answer: Symphony Number {\ul 9} in D minor or {\ul 9th} symphony or {\ul Choral} symphony
\par c) The alternate name for his third symphony.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Eroica}
\par 
\par 10. Answer the following about the second largest island in the world, for the stated number of points:
\par a) FFP, name it.  It might help to know that it ranks in size between Greenland and Borneo.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul New Guinea}
\par b) FFP, all or nothing, name both countries which control territory on New Guinea.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Indonesia}, {\ul Papua New Guinea}
\par c) FTP, give the name for the western half of New Guinea, which is controlled by Indonesia.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Irian Jaya}
\par d) FTP, name the country responsible for the administration of what became Papua New Guinea from 1921 until 1975.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Australia}
\par 
\par 11.  Identify the following relating to Thirty Years\rquote  War, FTP each:
\par a) The 1618 event in what is now the Czech Republic in which two imperial regents were thrown from a window, signalling the beginning of the Bohemian revolt against Habsburg rule which started the war.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Defenestration of Prague}
\par b) The Swedish king who fought on the side of the Protestants until being killed at the 1632 Battle of L\'fctzen.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Gustavus II} Adolphus (accept {\ul Gustavus Adolphus})
\par c) The 1648 treaty which ended the war.
\par \tab Answer: Peace of {\ul Westphalia}
\par 
\par 12.  Identify the following kinds of cells involved in immune response, FTP each:
\par a) The cells, whose types include \ldblquote killer\rdblquote  and \ldblquote helper,\rdblquote  which originate in the thymus and provide cell-mediated immunity by directly attacking invading antigens.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul T} cells (or {\ul T} lymphocytes)
\par b) The lymphocytes which make and secrete antibodies, thus providing humoral immunity.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul B} cells (or {\ul B} lymphocytes)
\par c) The large, slow-moving cells which provide non-specific immunity by engulfing and digesting antibody-antigen complexes.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Macrophage}s
\par 
\par 13. Identify the American novel from characters, for ten points each:
\par a) Roger Chillingworth, Arthur Dimmesdale
\par \tab Answer: {\i The }{\i\ul Scarlet Letter}
\par b) Judge Miller, Perrault, Buck
\par \tab Answer: {\i The }{\i\ul Call of the Wild}
\par c) Henry Fleming, Jim Conklin
\par \tab Answer: {\i\ul Red Badge of Courage}
\par 
\par 14. Come sail away by answering these questions related to the mythological underworld River Styx, FTP each:\line a) You pay this ferryman a coin for taking your soul across Styx and Acheron.\line \tab Answer: {\ul Charon}\line 
b) In the works of Hesiod, this Greek goddess of the rainbow was charged with carrying water from the River Styx whenever the gods had to take a solemn oath.\line \tab Answer: {\ul Iris}\line c) In Dante\rquote s {\i Inferno}
, as one descends through the depths of hell, this fire-stream is the first river one would cross after crossing Acheron and Styx.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Phlegethon}
\par 
\par 15. Identify the following terms from grammar, FTPE:
\par a) A \ldblquote verbal noun\rdblquote {{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 45 \\f "Symbol" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f1\fs20}}}in English usually an -i-n-g form{{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 45 \\f "Symbol" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f1\fs20}}}
which allows a verb construction to be used after a preposition.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Gerund}
\par b) The one-word term for the verb tense conjugated in English by the word \ldblquote had\rdblquote  followed by a past participle.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Pluperfect}
\par c) The case used in Latin to denote possession or to denote an object reciprocally sharing in an action or receiving an action.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Dative}
\par 
\par 16. Answer the following about the constitutional convention, FTP each:
\par a) Name the only state which did not send any delegates.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Rhode Island}
\par b) Name the plan, which is named after a state, which would have established a bicameral legislature with representation based on population.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Virginia} Plan
\par c) Name the man who proposed the Virginia plan, who later served as Attorney General and Secretary of State under Washington.
\par \tab Amswer: Edmund {\ul Randolph}
\par 
\par 17.  Shakespeare, Marlowe, both, or neither.  Given a literary work, tell whether it was written by the Bard, Marlowe, both, or neither, with a five point bonus for all correct:
\par a) {\i Titus Andronicus}\tab \tab \tab Answer: {\ul Shakespeare}
\par b) {\i Edward II}\tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: {\ul Marlowe}
\par c) {\i Volpone, or the Fox}\tab \tab \tab Answer: {\ul neither}
\par d) {\i Henry VIII}\tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: {\ul Shakespeare}
\par e) {\i Vortigern}\tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: {\ul neither}
\par 
\par 18. Name these terms from chemistry for 10 points each.\line a) This quantity, usually denoted by {\i H}
, is equal to the internal energy of a substance plus the product of pressure times volume.  The change in this quantity in a chemical reaction is equal to the heat absorbed in the reaction\line \tab Answer: {\ul Enthalpy}\line 
b) It is a solution of salts that maintains a constant pH despite small amounts of acid and base placed in it.\line \tab Answer: {\ul Buffer}\line c) Liquids that can be easily vaporized, like gasoline or alcohol, are characterized using this term.\line 
\tab Answer: {\ul Volatility} or {\ul volatile}\line \line 19.  Fear not for phobias are kind. Name these phobias from their descriptions for 10 points each.\line a) Fear of heights\line \tab Answer: {\ul Acrophobia}\line b) Fear of reptiles\line \tab 
Answer: {\ul Herpetophobia}\line c) Fear of open spaces\line \tab Answer: {\ul Agoraphobia}\line 
\par 20.  Answer these questions about 17th century England, FTPE:
\par a) This leader of the New Model Army was responsible for the victory of the Rounheads in the English Civil War.  He ruled England until his death in 1658 as Lord Protector.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Oliver Cromwell}
\par b) Proclaimed king of England 11 years before his coronation, this Stuart presided over the Restoration, a period famous for its literary talents.  His last words were, \ldblquote Let not poor Nellie starve.\rdblquote 
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Charles II}
\par c) Secretly converted to Catholicism, this religiously tolerant king lost his throne when he made public his plan to raise the newborn crown prince Catholic.  The Glorious Revolution followed.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul James II}
\par 
\par 21. 30-20-10. Name the artist.\line 30: Training under William Bouguereau, he met Albert Marquet, with whom he exhibited works at the 1905 Salon d'Automne.
\par 20:  Throughout his career, he fused color and line, such as in the works {\i Dance}, {\i Music}, and {\i Odalisques}.\line 10: He was considered the leader of the Fauvists.\line \tab Answer: Henri {\ul Matisse}
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par a
\par aa
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par aa
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par aa
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par aa
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par 
\par }