{\rtf1\ansi \deff57\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f57\froman\fcharset0\fprq0 Times New;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\f57\fs20 
\snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Ronald L. Usher}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy7\hr22\min23}{\printim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\min47}{\version1}{\edmins7}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49197}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\hyphcaps0 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ri720 \f57\fs20 Cal Classic IV
\par \pard \ri720 Packet by Jon Pennington
\par 
\par {\ul Tossups}
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 1. In Article One of this document, the United States and Great Britain agreed to let a commission determine who had legal ownership of two islands in Passamaquoddy Bay.  Signed on Christmas Eve of 1814, th
is document, named for the city in Belgium in which it was signed, reaffirmed the boundary between Canada and the United States established in the 1783 Treaty of Paris.  FTP, name this treaty that ended the War of 1812.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: the Treaty of {\ul Ghent}  
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 
2. This political group became a part of the German government coalition for the first time in its history and succeeded in getting one of its members appointed as Foreign Minister.  In 1996, the American version of this organization put Ralph Nader on th
e ballot as its candidate for president.  FTP, name this environmentally conscious political party with a colorful name.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: the {\ul Green} Party (also accept the {\ul Greens})
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 
3. They can be generated most efficiently by selecting a Mersenne prime, then multiplying it by the largest power of two smaller than the selected prime.  Members of this exclusive group include 8128, 496, 28, and 6. FTP, identify this term given to any n
umber that is equal to the sum of all its positive integer divisors.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\ul perfect number} 
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 
4. A man scheduled to die by hanging points to his persecutor, Colonel Pyncheon, and shouts, "God will give him blood to drink!"  Centuries later, Holgrave Maule, a direct descendant of the executed man, gains control of the Pyncheon estate after uncoveri
ng an Indian deed that negates the Pyncheons' claim to the land and marrying Phoebe Pyncheon.  FTP, name this gothic novel by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\i The }{\i\ul House of the Seven Gables}
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 5. If you use calcium chloride to melt the ice off a sidewalk, th
e calcium chloride will not erode the sidewalk, because the concentration of calcium ions in the mixture of melting ice and calcium chloride is too high to erode any calcium from the sidewalk.  This is an example of a chemical phenomenon that occurs whene
ver identical ions in a solution come from two different salts.  FTP, name this chemical effect that reduces the solubility of a salt by the addition of another salt with the same ion.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: the {\ul common ion effect
\par }
\par \pard \ri720 6.  \ldblquote We need more generalling and less isimo.\rdblquote 
  Sentiments like this were spoken by an American general about this Asian leader, who did a great deal of grandstanding, but in fact was saving his resources for the inevitable Civil War against the Communists.  This conduct frustrated American adv
isors during World War II, who wanted him to resist the Japanese more.  FTP, who is this nationalist Guomintang leader who fled to Taiwan in 1948 when his isimo failed to defeat Mao?
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\ul Chiang} Kai-Shek
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 7.  The creator of this mural originally conside
red adding a single red tear drop to this artwork, but then decided to keep everything black and white.  Originally created for the Spanish pavillion at the 1937 Paris World's Fair, this artwork depicted the bombing of Basque civilians by the German Luftw
affe during the Spanish Civil War.  FTP, name this mural depicting the horrors of war created by Pablo Picasso.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\i\ul Guernica} 
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 8. Before it became extinct in the Permian period, this arthropod survived on food particles it sucked in from the bottoms of
 lakes and streams and it was the first living creature to develop eyesight.  American Indians referred to it as "the little water bug that lives in the rocks," but its proper scientific name refers to the creature's exoskeleton, which consisted of three 
lobes.  FTP, name this easily recognizable fossil extremely popular among fossil collectors.  
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: the {\ul trilobite}
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 9. This term originally referred to the impoverished members of society who could not contribute to the government, except by bearing and 
raising children.  In modern political theory, it refers to propertyless laborers who sell their labor power to capitalists in exchange for wages, typically under exploitative conditions.  FTP, name this economic class portrayed in Marxist political theor
y as opposed to the bourgeoisie.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: the {\ul proletariat} (also accept {\ul proletarians}; do not accept {\ul working class}) 
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 10. Most literary scholars believe that the prototype for this character was Lord Burghley, a close advisor of Queen Elizabeth.  He is portra
yed by Shakespeare as an ineffective meddler who spouts aphorisms such as "Let neither a borrower nor a lender be" and "To thine own self be true."  FTP, name this advisor who makes the fatal mistake of eavesdropping on Hamlet from behind a tapestry.

\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\ul Polonius}  
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 11. Her political enemies said that she was a former prostitute and actress from Constantinople who would parade in the streets wearing nothing but a giant red ribbon.  She crushed the Nika rebellion in 532 A.D. and encouraged her husband t
o adopt the doctrine of Monophysitism, which argued that Jesus Christ was divine, but not human. FTP, name this empress of the Byzantine empire, the wife of Justinian the First.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\ul Theodora}   
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 
12. In ballet, it refers to a pose in which the dancer stands on one leg with one arm extended in front and the other leg and arm extended behind.  In music, it refers to a short decorative piano piece, most closely associated with Claude Debussy.  For fi
lm buffs, it refers to a 1966 secret agent thriller starr
ing Gregory Peck and Sophia Loren that director Stanley Donen made to capitalize on the success of his 1963 movie Charade.  FTP, what is this versatile term that can also be used to refer to ornamental motifs with undulating lines or a style of architectu
re common in Islamic countries?
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\ul arabesque}
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 13. He was a Quaker and a fervent abolitionist who denounced Daniel Webster's acceptance of the Compromise of 1850 in the poem \ldblquote Ichabod.\rdblquote   In one of his most famous poems, he celebrates a gray-haired woman
 who valiantly prevented Confederate troops from shooting at an American flag.  FTP, identify this poet who wrote "The Telling of the Bees," "Barbara Frietchie," and "Snowbound."  
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: John Greenleaf {\ul Whittier}
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 
14. It is not an independent country, but its parliament, Tynwald, is the oldest in the world, established over one thousand years ago.  Its capital is Douglas and it is home to a breed of cats born without any tails.  FTP, name this island in the United 
Kingdom whose name would seem to indicate that its population is entirely male.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: the {\ul Isle of Man}  
\par \pard \ri720 
\par \pard \ri720 
15. Minor characters in this literary work include Lucky and Pozzo, but the title character never arrives.  At the end of this play, the two main characters say "Yes, then let's go," but the stage directions indicate that they cannot move.  FTP, name this
 absurdist drama with the protagonists Vladimir and Estragon, written by Samuel Beckett.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\i\ul Waiting for Godot} ({\i\ul En Attendant Godot}){\ul 
\par }
\par \pard \ri720 16. When the body absorbs excess blood from ruptured 
blood vessels, it can lead to a disease that produces swollen joints, anemia, inflamed gums, and tooth loss.  In 1795, the British Navy successfully reduced the incidence of this disease among British sailors by providing all British naval vessels with su
pplies of lime juice.  FTP, what is this deficiency disease caused by a lack of vitamin C? 
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\ul scurvy} 
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 17. He survived being thrown from Mount Olympus on two occasions, once by Zeus and once by his mother Hera, because she thought he was too weak and
 ugly.  He is the creator of the twelve golden thrones of the Olympians and, despite his horrible looks, he is the husband of Aphrodite, the goddess of beauty.  FTP, identify this Greek god of fire, the equivalent to the Roman god Vulcan.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\ul Hephaestus}
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 18.  This speech saved a 1952 Vice Presidential candidate\rquote 
s career.  A pathetic mix of denial, defensiveness, and desperation, Nixon smarmed his way out of kick-back accusations, claiming the only gift he had received and not reported was this pet for 
his daughter.  FTP, by what name is this speech known, most famous for Nixon\rquote s finale, \ldblquote We\rquote re not going to give (him) back.\rdblquote 
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\ul Checkers} speech
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 19. This painter, born with the name Alessandro di Mariano Filipepi, depicted the sister of the explorer Amerigo Vespucci as the embodiment of female beauty in his most famous painting. His later paintings, such as the {\i Mystic Crucifixion}
 and the {\i Madonna of the Pomegranate}, dealt with religious material, but his earlier paintings, such as {\i Primavera}, were criticized for mixing pagan and Christian symbolism.  FTP, name this Italian Renaissance artist who painted {\i 
The Birth of Venus}.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: Sandro {\ul Botticelli} 
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 
20. Cellular phones may malfunction, because high-energy ions and electrons trapped in the Earth's magnetic field can interfere with satellite transmissions.  First detected by the satellite Explorer I in 1958, this region consists of ions and electrons w
hich emit intense radiation and can be found in two layers approximately 3000 kilometers and 15,000 kilometers above the Earth's surface.  FTP, what is this region of radiation-emitting particles named after the NASA scientist who discovered it?
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: the {\ul Van Allen belts}  (prompt on radiation belts)
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 
21. He mistakes a barber's basin for the golden helmet of the mythical giant Mambrino. His horse's name is the same as the Spanish word for "nag," but he refers to his lady love as Dulcinea, which means "sweet woman."  FTP, identify this literary characte
r, with the sidekick Sancho Panza, originally created by Miguel de Cervantes.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: Don {\ul Quixote} de la Mancha
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 
22. Charles Albert of Bavaria, Augustus the Third of Saxony, and Phillip the Fifth of Spain all hoped that this war would allow them to take control of the Holy Roman Empire.  The war began in 1740 when Frederick the Second of Prussia invaded Silesia and 
it ended in 1748 with the ratification of the treaty of Aix-la-Chappelle (eye-la-sha-PELL).  FTP, identify this war that began because of opposition to granting leadership of the Holy Roman Empire to Empress Maria Theresa of Austria.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: the {\ul War of Austrian Succession}  (also accept {\ul King George's War}) 
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 
23. In Nazi Germany, anti-Semitic writers falsely claimed that the composer of this opera was murdered in 1791 by a conspiracy of Jews and Masons who were outraged at the opera's exposure of Masonic symbolism and ritual.  Characters in this opera include 
a high priest of the Holy Brotherhood of Isis and Osiris, Papageno the birdcatcher, Prince Tamino, and Princess Pamina.  FTP, what is this musical work by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart often performed today as a "children's opera"?
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\i The }{\i\ul Magic Flute} ({\i Die }{\i\ul Zauberflote})
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 
24. According to this man's system of classification, Stage 1 is based on obedience that derives from a fear of punishment and Stage 4 is based on respect for rules and laws.  Feminist Carol Gilligan has sharply criticized him for overemphasizing abstract
 principles of justice and ignoring the relational basis of morality.  FTP, name this professor of psychology at Harvard University known for developing six stages of moral development.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: Lawrence {\ul Kohlberg}
\par \pard \ri720 \page {\ul Boni}
\par \pard \ri720 
\par \pard \ri720 1. For 30 pts., 5 pts. each, name the current Prime Minister of Great Britain and the five Prime Ministers who preceded him.  
\par \tab Answers: Tony {\ul Blair}, John {\ul Major}, Margaret {\ul Thatcher}, James {\ul Callaghan}, Harold {\ul Wilson}, and Edward {\ul Heath
\par }\pard \ri720 {\ul 
\par }2. Identify the following 20th century sculptors F15PE:
\par a) This Romanian abstract sculptor is best known for {\i Bird in Space} and {\i The Kiss}.
\par \tab Answer: Constantin {\ul Brancusi
\par }\pard \ri720 b) He was not a conventional sculptor, but a designer of large mobiles that would hang from the ceilings of large buildings, such as the National Gallery of Art or the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: Alexander {\ul Calder}
\par {\ul 
\par }\pard \ri720 
3. For this grammar bonus, you will have to identify the proper verb tense in the following sentences.  For example, if I said "I got jiggy with it," you would say "past tense" or "simple past tense."  Identify the verb tense in these similar sentences FT
PE:
\par \pard \ri720 a) She was getting jiggy with it. \tab \tab Answer: {\ul past progressive} (or {\ul imperfect}) tense
\par b) He had gotten jiggy with it.  \tab \tab Answer: {\ul past perfect} tense
\par \pard \ri720 c) You will have been getting jiggy with it.  \tab Answer: {\ul future perfect progressive} or {\ul future pluperfect} tense
\par \pard \ri720 {\ul 
\par }4. Answer the following questions about countries with unusual flags FTPE:
\par a) This is the only country with an official flag in the shape of square, instead of a rectangle.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Switzerland}
\par b) This is the only country with an official flag that is not in shape of either a square or a rectangle.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Nepal}
\par c) This Islamic country is the only country with a flag that has only one color, the color green.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Libya
\par 
\par }5. Identify the following famous dancers FTPE:
\par \pard \ri720 a) Born in 1880, he was the best Russian ballet dancer of his era and he was a founding member of Sergei Diaghilev's Ballet Russe.  
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: Vaslav {\ul Nijinsky}
\par \pard \ri720 b) Born Margaret Hookham, she was the most successful British ballet dancer of all time and served as prima ballerina in the British Royal Ballet from 1940 to 1979.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: Dame Margot {\ul Fonteyn}
\par \pard \ri720 c) As a teenager, this dancer was a regular on {\i Sesame Street}, but he is best known for his tap dancing in the Broadway sensation, {\i Bring In Da Noise, Bring In Da Funk}.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: Savion {\ul Glover} 
\par 
\par 6. Identify the following categories of elements from the periodic table FTPE:
\par \pard \ri720 a) This group consists of elements such as fluorine, chlorine, and iodine that have seven electrons in their outer electron shell, which makes it easy for them to form compounds with metals.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\ul halogens}
\par \pard \ri720 b) This group includes all elements except hydrogen with only one electron in its outer electron shell.  Members of this group include lithium, sodium, and potassium and can be quite volatile when reacting with water.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\ul alkali metals}
\par \pard \ri720 c) This category refers to a series of rare earth elements with the atomic numbers 57 through 71, such as neodymium, terbium, and holmium.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\ul lanthanides} or {\ul lanthanoids}
\par 
\par \pard \ri720 7. In 1996, the journal Contemporary Sociology published a list of what it viewed as the top ten most influential books of sociology of all time.  Answer the following questions about books on that list FTPE:
\par a) This French philosopher and historian who died of AIDS in 1984 was included on the list for his book {\i Discipline and Punish} about the historical development of prison systems.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: Michel {\ul Foucault} (pronounced foo-KOH)
\par \pard \ri720 b) This sociologist from the University of Chicago was included on the list for his book The Declining Significance of Race, but not for his book The Truly Disadvantaged.  He has also served as an uno
fficial advisor to President Clinton on issues of race and poverty.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: William Julius {\ul Wilson}
\par \pard \ri720 
c) This book published by the Boston Women's Health Collective was criticized for its inclusion on the list, because of its lack of connection to sociology, but it is still noteworthy because it is considered the most successful attempt by the feminist mo
vement to demystify medicine and health care for women and teenage girls.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\i\ul Our Bodies, Our Selves}  (also accept {\i The }{\i\ul New Our Bodies, Our Selves})
\par 
\par 8. Answer the following questions about Norse mythology for the stated number of points: 
\par a) For 15 pts., 5 pts. each, name the three days of the week not named after gods from Norse mythology.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Sunday}, {\ul Monday}, and {\ul Saturday
\par }b) Now for 10 points, five per pair, name the four gods who give their names to the other days of the week.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Tyr} (or {\ul Tu}), {\ul Wotan} (or {\ul Odin}) {\ul Thor}, {\ul Freya}
\par \pard \ri720 c) For a final five points, the moon and sun were not gods in Norse myth.  What sort of animal chased them through the sky?
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\ul Wolves
\par }
\par \pard \ri720 9. For this bonus, I will give you the year of a presidential election and a third-party candidate who ran during that year.  Your task is to provide me with the political party that nominated him FSNOP:
\par \pard \ri720 a) FFP, 1912, Teddy Roosevelt \tab \tab Answer: {\ul Bull Moose} or {\ul Progressive} Party)
\par b) FTP, 1948, Strom Thurmond \tab \tab Answer: {\ul States' Rights} or {\ul Dixiecrat} Party
\par \pard \ri720 c) F15P 1860, John Bell \tab \tab \tab Answer: {\ul Constitutional Union} or {\ul Constitutional Unionists}
\par \pard \ri720 {\ul 
\par }10. Identify the directors of the following numerically titled foreign films FTPE:
\par a) {\i The Seventh Seal}\tab \tab \tab Answer: Ingmar {\ul Bergman}
\par b) {\i The 400 Blows\tab \tab \tab }\tab Answer: Francois {\ul Truffaut}
\par c) {\i Eight and a Half}\tab \tab \tab Answer: Federico {\ul Fellini
\par 
\par }11. Answer the following questions about nucleotides FTPE:
\par a) What is the only nucleotide that can be found in DNA, but not RNA?
\par \tab Answer: {\ul thymine}
\par b) What is the only nucleotide that can be found in RNA, but not DNA?
\par \tab Answer: {\ul uracil}
\par c) Thymine and uracil are both included in what category of nucleotides?
\par \tab Answer: {\ul pyrimidines}
\par {\ul 
\par }12. Identify the philosopher who said the following quotes FSNOP:
\par a) F5P, I think, therefore I am. 
\par \tab Answer: Rene {\ul Descartes}
\par b) FTP, Those who do not learn from the past are condemned to repeat it.  
\par \tab Answer: George {\ul Santayana}
\par c) F15P, If God did not exist, it would be necessarty to invent Him.  
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Voltaire} or Francois Marie {\ul Arouet}
\par {\ul 
\par }13. Identify the following short stories by Edgar Allan Poe FTPE:
\par a) A man commits revenge against another man by luring him to his wine cellar and burying him alive.
\par \tab Answer: \ldblquote The {\ul Cask of Amontillado}\rdblquote {\ul 
\par }\pard \ri720 b) A dwarf  jester exacts murderous revenge against the king and the king's advisors who tease him mercilessly.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: \ldblquote {\ul Hop-Frog}\rdblquote {\ul 
\par }c) The detective Auguste Dupin solves an unspeakable crime committed by an orangutang.
\par \tab Answer: \ldblquote The {\ul Murders in the Rue Morgue}\rdblquote 
\par {\ul 
\par }\pard \ri720 14. Identify the physical quantities measured by the following equations for 10 pts. each, 5 pts. if you need to know the standard unit for measuring that quantity.
\par \pard \ri720 a) 10 pts.: the product of force times distance divided by time.
\par 5 pts.: watt
\par \tab Answer: {\ul power} or {\ul radiant flux}
\par b) 10 pts.: force divided by area.
\par 5 pts.: pascal
\par \tab Answer: {\ul pressure}
\par c) 10 pts.: electromotive force divided by electric current.
\par 5 pts.: ohm
\par \tab Answer: {\ul resistance
\par 
\par }15. Identify the following poetic terms FTPE:
\par a) A type of sonnet, also known as an Italian sonnet, that uses the rhyme scheme ABBAABBACDECDE.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Petrarchan} sonnet
\par \pard \ri720 b) The verse form, used by Dante, using the rhyme scheme ABA,BCB,CDC,  etc.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\ul Terza rima
\par }\pard \ri720 c) A form of poetry invented by the Japanese that consists of three lines, with five syllables in the first line, seven in the second, and five in the third.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\ul haiku}
\par {\ul 
\par }\pard \ri720 16. Many famous books have taken their titles from lines in Shakespeare plays.  Identify the Shakespeare play that served as the source for the following titles for 15 pts. each, 5pts. if you need additional clue:
\par \pard \ri720 a) 15 pt. clue: {\i Brave New World};
\par 5 pt. clue: Miranda says these words in the presence of Prospero, Alonso, and Ferdinand.{\ul 
\par }\tab Answer: {\i The }{\i\ul Tempest}
\par b) 15 pt. clue: {\i Fatal Vision};
\par 5pt. clue: this phrase appears in the "dagger speech" recited by the title character
\par \tab Answer: {\i\ul Macbeth}{\ul 
\par 
\par }17.  Provide the more common name for the following medical conditions FTPE:
\par a) Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Lou Gehrig's Disease}
\par b) Pertussis
\par \tab Answer: {\ul whooping cough}
\par c) Hansen's disease
\par \tab Answer: {\ul leprosy}
\par 
\par 18. Answer the following questions about the history of India FTPE:
\par \pard \ri720 a) This Mogul emperor built a famous mausoleum for his wife, Mumtaz Mehal, in the city of Agra.  This mausoleum is now a destination for thousands of tourists worldwide.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: Shah {\ul Jahan}
\par \pard \ri720 b) This revolt, which lasted from 1857 to 1859, began when the British forced Hindu and Muslim soldiers to bite cartridges greased with pork fat and beef tallow.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: the {\ul Sepoy Mutiny} (also accept the {\ul Sepoy Rebellion}; prompt on {\ul Indian Rebellion})
\par \pard \ri720 c) This British admiral served as the last governor general of India when India finally became independent in 1948.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: Louis {\ul Mountbatten}, 1st Earl of Mountbatten of Burma
\par 
\par 19. Identify these factions of the French Revolution FTPE:
\par \pard \ri720 
a) This term, which derives from the French words for "without britches," referred to urban radicals in large cities who supported revolutionary methods to establish a republican government.  The term was originally used as an insult by aristocrats to mak
e fun of the urban poor, but was later adopted by the revolutionaries themselves.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\ul sans-culottes}
\par \pard \ri720 b) This group of French radicals promoted the Reign of the Terror and supported the execution of Louis XVI. Their name is the same as the French term for "Dominicans," because they met in a Dominican convent before they came to power.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: the {\ul Jacobins}
\par \pard \ri720 c) This faction was more moderate than the Jacobins and opposed the execution of Louis XVI.  One of its most famous members was Charlotte Corday, the assassin of Jean Paul Marat.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: the {\ul Girondists}
\par 
\par 20.  Identify the following social science terms that begin with the letter "O" for 10 pts. each:
\par \pard \ri720 a) This term refers to the philosophy that states that it is possible to c
reate accurate representations of the external physical and social world without any influence from the observer's perspective.  Ayn Rand claimed that her political philosophy was an example of this.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\ul objectivism}
\par \pard \ri720 b) This word derives from the Greek words for "rule by the few."  It refers to organizations or governments that are ruled by a small elite with minimal input from lower-ranking members or citizens.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: {\ul oligarchy}
\par 
\par 21. Identify the following persons related to the impeachment and trial of President Bill Clinton FTPE:
\par \pard \ri720 a) This Illinois congressman is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, where the final impeachment resolution originated.  Like Bill Clinton, newspaper reports have accused him of cheating on his wife.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: Henry {\ul Hyde} 
\par \pard \ri720 b) This Georgia congressman and one of the House managers was the first to file an impeachment resolution against Bill Clinton, long before the discovery of Monica Lewinsky. 
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: Bob {\ul Barr}
\par \pard \ri720 c) He was the only Democratic member of Congress to have the opportunity to vote on President Clinton's impeachment twice, once as a member of the House of Representatives and once as a member of the Senate.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: Charles {\ul Schumer} 
\par 
\par 22. Identify the following female astronomers for 15 pts. each:
\par \pard \ri720 
a) She became the first professional female American astronomer after the military hired her to develop a chart of the position of Venus.  She served as professor of Astronomy at Vassar College from 1865 to 1888 and was the first woman selected as a membe
r of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
\par \pard \ri720 \tab Answer: Maria {\ul Mitchell
\par }\pard \ri720 b) She discovered eight comets during her career and received a salary of 50 pounds per year from George III as the assistant to the royal astronomer.  In 1781, she assisted her brother William in discovering the planet Uranus.  {\ul 
\par }\pard \ri720 \tab Answer: Caroline {\ul Herschel
\par 
\par }\pard \ri720 25.  Identify the musical compositions based on an incomplete list of sections from the composition for 15 pts. each, 10 pts. if you need the name of the composer.
\par \pard \ri720 a) 15 pts.: the Bringer of Jollity, the Bringer of War, and the Winged Messenger
\par 10 pts.: Gustav Holst
\par \tab Answer: {\i\ul The Planets}
\par b) 15 pts.: the Gnome, the Promenade, and the Great Gate of Kiev
\par 10 pts.: Modest Mussorgsky
\par \tab Answer {\i\ul Pictures at an Exhibition}
\par 
\par a
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par a
\par 
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par aa
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par aa
\par a
\par \pard \ri720 a
\par \pard \ri720 a
\par aa
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par aa
\par a
\par a
\par aa
\par a
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par aa
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par aa
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par a
\par aa
\par a
\par a
\par 
\par }