{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman{\*\falt  Times};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title Cal Classic IV}{\author Ronald L. Usher}{\operator Ronald L. Usher}{\creatim\yr1999\mo2\dy28\hr23\min14}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy7\hr23\min8}
{\printim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\min49}{\version1}{\edmins1}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49197}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \f4\fs20 Cal Classic IV
\par Packet by Mike Usher
\par 
\par {\ul Tossups}
\par 
\par 1.  Reference to this man, whose first name was probably Georg, may be found in the works of Philipp Melanchthon, but in a 1587 book printed by Johann Spies his name was switched to Johann.  In one play, he sed
uces and impregnates a girl named Gretchen, who drowns their child; this story also appears in an opera by Charles Gounod.  FTP, name this legendary subject of plays by Marlowe and Goethe who sells his soul to the demonic spirit Mephistopheles.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Faust}
\par 
\par 2.  In one myth, this son of the virgin goddess Coatlicue threw himself on a funeral pyre after being seduced by another deity, after which his heart became the morning star.  Associated with water and fertility, he introduced the calendar and agricul
ture, and a myth which predicted his appearance in the form of a light-skinned, bearded man appeared to have come true in 1519.  FTP, name this feathered serpent and major deity of the Toltec and Aztec.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Quetzalcoatl}
\par 
\par 3.  This chemical compound, obtained mainly from coke-oven gas and discovered in a gas made from whale oil in 1825, is the parent substance of such compounds as maleic anhydride, aniline, phenol, and toluene.  At 1.39 angstroms, the distance between its c
arbon atoms is unusual, reflecting the accuracy of the models constructed by Linus Pauling and August Kekule describing the resonance behavior of its single and double bonds.  FTP, name this aromatic compound of formula C{\sub 6}H{\sub 6}.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Benzene}
\par 
\par 4.  This work, whose climactic phrase was used as the epigraph for T.S. Eliot\rquote s \ldblquote The Hollow Men," is narrated by a former river steamer operator who also narrates such works by the same author as {\i Chance}, {\i Youth}, and {\i Lord Jim}
.  Intrigued by stories about a powerful trader, the narrator travels upriver to see him, only to find the trader, Kurtz, ruthlessly exploiting the region\rquote s natives.  FTP, name this 1902 novella set in the Congo by Joseph Conrad.
\par \tab Answer: {\i\ul Heart of Darkness}
\par 
\par 5.  This priest of the Greek god Asclepius led the Athenian chorus in its celebration of the victory at Salamis as a 16 year old.  Of his more than 100 plays, which were the first to use a third speaking actor, only seven survive in full, including {\i 
Philoctetes} and {\i Ajax}.  FTP, name this tragic dramatist and rival of Aeschylus and Euripides best known for {\i Antigone} and {\i Oedipus the King}.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Sophocles}
\par 
\par 6.  After this man\rquote 
s parents separated when he was six, he lived with his mother Nandi in the Langeni clan, but the Langeni later drove the family out, a decision the clan leaders would regret when he had them impaled shortly after taking power.  In 1827,
 his mother died, and in his grief he banned the planting of crops and the use of milk for a year and killed all pregnant women and their husbands, having by this point taken over 
virtually all of modern-day Natal.  FTP, name this founder of the Zulu Empire.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Shaka} (Zulu)
\par 
\par 7.  The derivative of the inverse of this function is negative 1 divided by the square root of the quantity one minus {\i x} squared.  It may be expressed as {\i e} to the {\i ix} plus {\i e} to the -{\i ix}
 all over two, and the graph of its hyperbolic form takes the shape of a catenary.  FTP, name this trigonometric function which for small values is approximated by the parabola 1 minus {\i x} squared over 2 and whose reciprocal is the secant.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul cosine}
\par 
\par 8.  With Robert Southey, he intended to found a utopian community in Pennsylvania based on the scheme of pantisocracy, but abandoned the plan due to financial difficulties in 1796.  After traveling to Germany and translating Schiller\rquote s {\i 
Wallenstein}, he settled with William Wordsworth in the Lake District, where he became addicted to opium and wrote such poems as \ldblquote Christabel\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Dejection: An Ode.\rdblquote   FTP, name this romantic poet best known for 
\ldblquote Kubla Khan\rdblquote  and \ldblquote The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.\rdblquote 
\par \tab Answer: Samuel Taylor {\ul Coleridge}
\par 
\par 9.  This artist began as an assistant to Lorenzo Ghiberti around 1405, and while working with Ghiberti he developed a new kind of relief called {\i schicciato} with his marble panel, \ldblquote St. George Killing the Dragon.\rdblquote 
  His knowledge of ancient sculpture exceeded that of any other artist of his day, but he is recognized for rejecting the serenity of ancient art in favor of a more vigorous style, seen in such works as \ldblquote Feast of Herod\rdblquote 
 and an equestrian statue of Gattamelata.  FTP, name this artist who did much of his best work in bronze and who, like fellow Ninja Turtle Michelangelo, is best known for a statue of David.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Donatello} (or Donato di Niccol\'f2 di Betto {\ul Bardi})
\par 
\par 10.  As a result of the \ldblquote Final Act\rdblquote 
 of this meeting, which began 6 months after the signing of the Treaty of Chaumont, Denmark gained control of the region Lauenberg, Prussia took Thorn, Norway acquired Sweden, and Krakow became a free city.  Delegates to
 the meeting included Karl von Hardenberg, t
he Duke of Wellington, Viscount Castlereagh, Tsar Alexander I, and Talleyrand.  FTP, name this assembly which reorganized Europe after the Napoleonic Wars and was hosted by minister Klemens von Metternich of Austria.
\par \tab Answer: Congress of {\ul Vienna}
\par 
\par 11.  This artistic movement, associated with such poets as Detlev von Liliencron and Rainier Rilke and with composers such as Ottorino Respighi, grew out of an organization called the Anonymous Society of Artists, Painters, Sculptors, etc..  The movement 
was named b
y its harshest critics, who specifically objected to the lack of continuous brushstrokes in an 1872 painting of a sunrise.  FTP, name this movement best represented by the painters John Singer Sargent, Alfred Sisley, Mary Cassatt, Edgar Degas, and Claude 
Monet.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Impressionism}
\par 
\par 12.  This river passes through the Iron Gate gorge after flowing across the Little and Great Alford plains on its way from the Breg and Brigarch springs in the Black Forest to its delta near Izmail, Moldova.  It takes a 90 deg
ree turn southward at Visegrad near the border between Slovakia and Hungary, and runs through such cities as Linz, Bratislava, Belgrade, Budapest, and Vienna.  FTP, name this Eastern European river inaccurately referred to as \ldblquote blue\rdblquote 
 in the title of a waltz by Johann Strauss.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Danube}
\par 
\par 13.  This composer, regarded as a founder of the bel canto style of singing, wrote no operas in the last 39 years before his 1868 death, restricting himself to a few choral works such as {\i Stabat Mater}.  Born in the Papal
 States, he lived much of his life in Paris, where he composed \ldblquote The Journey to Reims\rdblquote  for the coronation of Charles X, having established his reputation with comic operas like {\i The Lady of the Lake}, {\i Semiarimide}, and {\i 
Cinderella}.  FTP, name this composer of {\i William Tell} and {\i The Barber of Seville}.
\par \tab Answer: Gioacchino Antonio {\ul Rossini}
\par 
\par 14.  This notion in economics was premised on the existence of a surplus of labor and the fact that wealthier people have more children who live to adulthood, so that increasing sa
laries would ultimately increase the size of the workforce.  Put forward in the 1817 book {\i Principles of Political Economy and Taxation}
, it maintains that any attempt to raise the real income of laborers is futile, so that wages will remain near the subsistence level.  FTP, name this law proposed by David Ricardo.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Iron Law of Wages}
\par 
\par 15.  Although they knew nothing of agriculture and, at least initially, had no central leadership, in 376 they defeated the Visigoths in what is now Romania, allowing th
em to demand tribute from the Romans.  In 432, Rua became their king, and when he died two years later he was succeeded by his two nephews, one of whom killed the other and lost only one battle in a series of campaigns which saw him take over the Balkans 
and sack several Italian cities.  FTP, name this group of nomads who gradually disappeared from the map of Europe after the death of their leader Attila.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Hun}s
\par 
\par 16.  Construction on this building, which is built to sway as much as 18 inches, began i
n 1963, 15 years after its design was chosen as a result of a nationwide competition.  Consisting of 143 triangular segments, it is located two blocks away from the courthouse which saw the first two Dred Scott trials.  FTP, name this catenary-shaped stru
cture designed by Eero Saarinen as part of the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial in St. Louis.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Gateway Arch} (prompt on \ldblquote Jefferson National Expansion Memorial\rdblquote )
\par 
\par 17.  Part of this organ is regulated by the hormone secretin, is connected by the d
uct of Santorini and the duct of Wirsung to the duodenum, and uses its acinar cells to manufacture the precursors to the enzyme trypsin.  Its other, endocrine, part makes small amounts of somatostatin in the islets of Langerhans, but mainly functions to r
egulate the storage of sugar.  FTP, name the organ which produces glucagon and insulin.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Pancreas}
\par 
\par 18.  She co-authored {\i A Rap on Race} with James Baldwin one year after the publication of her 1970 work, {\i Culture and Commitment}, a biography of Ruth Ben
edict.  Her first book was published a year before she received her Ph.D. from Columbia University and reflected her belief in cultural determinism, a position which caused later anthropologists to question the book\rquote 
s observations on such matters as culture change, psychology, and sexual behavior.  FTP, name this author of such works as {\i Growing up in New Guinea} and {\i Coming of Age in Samoa}.
\par \tab Answer: Margaret {\ul Mead}
\par 
\par 19.  Legend says he retired from politics when his son Caeso (KIGH-zo) Quinctius (KWINC-tius) wa
s put on trial by a tribune and fined.  Nevertheless, this great patriot put aside his personal grief--and his plow--when a delegation from the Senate appointed him dictator in 458 B.C..  FTP, what Roman patrician rescued the consul and his country from t
he Aequi (EYE-kwi) and is today honored by a city in Ohio?
\par \tab Answer: Lucius Quinctius {\ul Cincinnatus}
\par 
\par 20.  This electrical device can be used as a filter to divert potentially damaging electrical signals or as a place to store information from computer memory i
n case of a power failure, and a variable one is used as a tuning device in radios.  Its effectiveness is improved when the electric field inside it is decreased through the introduction of an insulating dielectric, which carries bound charges on its surf
ace.  FTP, name this device often consisting of two parallel plates, whose effect is measured in farads.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Capacitor}
\par 
\par 21.  This author\rquote s 1986 play {\i Dreaming Emmett} was based on the life of a young boy killed by a lynch mob, but her 1993 Nobel Prize re
sulted mainly from her novels, whose characters include Pecola, Jadine, Sixo, and Milkman.  Born Chloe Anthony Wofford, she used 1920s Harlem as a setting for her second most recent novel, {\i Jazz}.  FTP, name this author of {\i The Bluest Eye}, {\i 
Paradise}, and {\i Beloved}.
\par \tab Answer: Toni {\ul Morrison}
\par 
\par 22.  Their names include Theodore, Eulalius, Ursinus, Paschal, and Novatian.  Three of them were named John; the first, Hippolytus, was a saint; and four of them ruled between 1378 and 1417 out of Avignon.  FTP, give the term fo
r an illegitimate claimant to the throne of the pope.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Antipope}s
\par 
\par 23.  Probably invented in Russia, this instrument was perfected in 1849 by Ignaz Stowasser and has often been used in military bands.  Often pitched in E-flat or C, it is also known as the helicon, but obtained its more common American name when a removab
le bell was attached to it.  FTP, name this marching instrument named after the composer of \ldblquote El Capitan\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Stars and Stripes Forever.\rdblquote 
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Sousaphone} (accept \ldblquote helicon\rdblquote  early)
\par 
\par 24.  After joining the Communist Party while on a work-study program in France two years after his participation in the May Fourth Movement, he worked as a military organizer under Chiang Kai-Shek, only to be purged by Chiang in 1927.  However, thanks in 
part to his charm and negotiating skills, that was the only time in his life that he was purged, and as foreign minister he signed a 30-year alliance with Russia.  FTP, name this premier and diplomat whose 1971 meeting with Henry Kissinger set the stage f
or the historic meeting between Richard Nixon and Mao Zedong.{\ul 
\par }\tab Answer: {\ul Chou} En-Lai ({\ul Zhou} Enlai)
\par 
\par \page {\ul Boni}
\par 
\par \pard \tx720 1.  Identify the following social reformers, FTP each:
\par a) The Welsh born utopian socialist who founded several small utopian communities, including New Lanark, Scotland, in 1816 and New Harmony, Indiana, in 1825.
\par \tab Answer: Robert {\ul Owen}
\par b) The advocate for the mentally ill whose 1843 report to the Massachusetts state legislature about the condition of mental patients in prison led to the construction of numerous mental hospitals.
\par \tab Answer: Dorothea {\ul Dix}
\par c) The winner of the 1931 Nobel Peace Prize best known for founding Hull House, a social settlement in Chicago.
\par \tab Answer: Jane {\ul Addams}
\par \pard 
\par 2.  Identify the following anthropological terms relating to marriage customs, for the stated number of points:
\par a) FFP, the general term for the marriage of a single person to multiple spouses.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul polygamy}
\par b) FTP, the specific term for the marriage of a woman to multiple husbands.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul polyandry}
\par c) F15P, the term for the marriage of a widow to her deceased husband\rquote s brother.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul levirate} marriage
\par 
\par 3.  Identify the following short stories by Mark Twain, FTP each:
\par a) The 1865 story about a frog-jumping contest with which Twain first achieved fame as a storyteller.
\par \tab Answer: \ldblquote {\ul The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County}\rdblquote 
\par b) The 1900 story about a stranger to a town who concocts a scheme to test the honesty of its leading citizens.
\par \tab Answer: \ldblquote {\ul The Man that Corrupted Hadleyburg}\rdblquote 
\par c) The 1898 story about a 16th century Austrian boy\rquote s encounter with Satan.
\par \tab Answer: \ldblquote {\ul The Mysterious Stranger}\rdblquote 
\par 
\par \pard \tx720 4.  Identify the following rulers of Russia, FTP each:
\par a) The tsar from 1682 to 1725 known for his efforts to modernize Russia so that it could compete with the nations of Western Europe and for his victory over Sweden in the Great Northern War.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Peter I} or {\ul Peter} the {\ul Great} (accept Pyotr for Peter)
\par b) The German-born empress of Russia from 1762-1796 who continued Peter\rquote s efforts at modernization and annexed the Crimea and much of Poland.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Catherine II} or {\ul Catherine} the {\ul Great} (accept Yekaterina for Catherine)
\par c) The emperor of Russia from 1855-1881, best known for emancipating the serfs.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Alexander II}
\par \pard 
\par 5.  Identify the following 17th century Dutch painters from works, FTP each:
\par a) {\i The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Tulp}, {\i The Company of Franz Banning Cocq}, {\i Supper at Emmaus}
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Rembrandt} Harmenszoon van Rijn
\par b) {\i The Raising of the Cross}, {\i Landscape with the Castle of Steen}
\par \tab Answer: Peter Paul {\ul Rubens}
\par c) {\i The Lacemaker}, {\i The Artist in his Studio}
\par \tab Answer: Jan {\ul Vermeer}
\par 
\par 6.  Identify the following kinds of musical compositions, FTP each:
\par a) A composition for relatively few instruments, usually consisting of three or four movements of contrasting rhythm and mood but similar tonality.  Examples include \ldblquote Kreutzer\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Moonlight\rdblquote  by Beethoven.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Sonata}
\par b) A large-scale composition usually based on Scripture.  Examples include Bach\rquote s {\i Passion According to St. Matthew}, Handel\rquote s {\i Messiah}, and Haydn\rquote s {\i The Creation}.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Oratorio}
\par c) A composition, similar to an overture, inspired by a literary theme to which the title usually alludes. Examples include {\i The Preludes} by Franz Liszt, who invented the form; Richard Strauss\rquote  {\i Don Juan} and {\i Also Sprach Zarathustra}
; and Claude Debussy\rquote s {\i Prelude to the Afternoon of a Fawn}.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Symphonic poem} or {\ul tone poem}
\par 
\par \pard \tx720 7.  Identify the following explorers, FTP each:
\par a) The Spaniard who led the first stable settlement in the New World at Dari\'e9n, Panama, and who in 1513 became the first European to see the Pacific Ocean.
\par \tab Answer: Vasco N\'fa\'f1ez de {\ul Balboa}
\par b) The Portuguese navigator who in 1500 accidentally discovered Brazil on what was supposed to be the second major expedition around the Cape of Good Hope to India.
\par \tab Answer: Pedro \'c1lvares {\ul Cabral}
\par c) The one-time governor of Guatemala who, in 1542, became the first European to explore the coast of California.
\par \tab Answer: Juan Rodr\'edguez {\ul Cabrillo}
\par \pard 
\par \pard \tx720 8.  Identify the following ancient battles between the Greeks and the Persians, FTP each:
\par a) The 490 B.C.E. battle in which the Athenians under Miltiades repulsed the first Persian invasion of Greece.  The battle is probably most famous for the exploits of a messenger who ran from the battlefield to Athens to report the result.
\par \tab Answer: Battle of {\ul Marathon} 
\par b) The August 480 B.C.E. battle in which the Spartans under Leonidas unsuccessfully tried to stop the numerically superior Persians from advancing into central Greece.
\par \tab Answer: Battle of {\ul Thermopylae}
\par c) After the Greek defeat at Thermopylae, a naval stand near Athens was the Greeks\rquote  salvation
, as the smaller Greek fleet defeated the Persians in narrow confines.  Legend says Themistocles induced the Persians to attack by pretending the Greeks were about to flee in fear, inspiring Xerxes to \ldblquote finish them off.\rdblquote 
\par \tab Answer: Battle of {\ul Salamis}
\par \pard 
\par 9.  Identify the following rules from chemistry , FTP each:
\par a) This principle, which in its most general form says that no two indistinguishable fermions can occupy the same quantum state, results in the rule that a single orbital can\rquote t hold more than two electrons.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Pauli Exclusion} Principle
\par b) This rule, violated by compounds containing hydrogen, states that each atom in a compound will have eight valence electrons associated with it.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Octet} rule
\par c) This rule states that if two or more orbitals are available to be filled by two electrons, the electrons will occupy different orbitals and have parallel spins.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Hund\rquote s} rule
\par 
\par 10.  Identify the following German or Austrian authors from works, FFP each:
\par a) {\i The Magic Mountain}, {\i B\'fcddenbrooks}
\par \tab Answer: Thomas {\ul Mann}
\par b) {\i Siddhartha}, {\i Steppenwolf}
\par \tab Answer: Herman {\ul Hesse}
\par c) {\i The Tin Drum}, {\i The Flounder
\par }\tab Answer: G\'fcnter {\ul Grass}
\par d) {\i Roman Elegies}, {\i The Sorrows of Young Werther}, {\i Iphigenia in Tauris}
\par \tab Answer: Johann Wolfgang von {\ul Goethe}
\par e) {\i The Castle}, {\i The Trial}, \ldblquote Metamorphosis\rdblquote 
\par \tab Answer: Franz {\ul Kafka}
\par f) {\i The Robbers}, {\i Don Carlos}
\par \tab Answer: (Johann Christoph) Friedrich von {\ul Schiller}
\par 
\par 11.  Identify the founders of the following religions, FTP each:
\par a) Jainism
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Mahavira} (or {\ul Vardhamana})
\par b) Sikhism
\par \tab Answer: Guru {\ul Nanak}
\par c) Baha\rquote i
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Baha\rquote ullah} (or {\ul Mirza Husayn} Ali)
\par 
\par 12.  Identify the following works by Daniel Defoe, for the stated number of points:
\par a) FFP, Defoe\rquote s novel about a mariner who spends over 24 years on an uninhabited island.
\par \tab Answer: {\i The Life and Strange Surprising Adventures of }{\i\ul Robinson Crusoe}{\i , of York, Mariner}
\par b) FTP, Defoe\rquote s 1722 novel about a woman who spends parts of her life as a whore and as a thief but eventually gets rich, reforms herself, and dies.
\par \tab Answer: {\i\ul Moll Flanders}
\par c) F15P, Defoe\rquote s account of the 1665 bubonic plague epidemic in England.
\par \tab Answer: {\i A }{\i\ul Journal of the Plague Year}
\par 
\par 13.  Give the values of the following physical constants to at least two significant figures, for the stated number of points:
\par a) FFP, Avogadro\rquote s number
\par \tab Answer: {\ul 6.0}221367 times {\ul 10}{\ul\super 23}{\ul 
\par }b) FFP, the universal gravitational constant, measured in meters-cubed per kilogram per second squared
\par \tab Answer: {\ul 6.7} times {\ul 10}{\ul\super -11} (6.67259*10{\super -11})
\par c) FTP, the charge of the electron, measured in coulombs
\par \tab Answer: -{\ul 1.6}0217733 times {\ul 10}{\ul\super -19}
\par d) FTP, Boltzmann\rquote s constant, measured in Joules per degree Kelvin
\par \tab Answer: {\ul 1.4} times {\ul 10}{\ul\super -23} (1.380658*10{\super -23})
\par 
\par 14.  Given an abbreviation commonly found on sheet music, give the Italian word or phrase it represents, FFP each:
\par a) ff
\par \tab Answer: {\ul fortissimo}
\par b) dim
\par \tab Answer: {\ul diminuendo}
\par c) D.C.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul da capo}
\par d) sfz
\par \tab Answer: {\ul sforzando}
\par e) rit
\par \tab Answer: {\ul ritardando}
\par f) rall
\par \tab Answer: {\ul rallentando}
\par 
\par 15.  Identify the following ancestors of Zeus, FTP each:
\par a) Zeus\rquote  father, the youngest of the twelve titans, who swallowed Zeus\rquote  brothers and sisters but was overpowered by Zeus.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Cronus}
\par b) Zeus\rquote  paternal grandfather, who personified the sky and was castrated by Cronus.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Uranus}
\par c) Zeus\rquote  paternal grandmother, the earth goddess who was both mother and mate to Uranus.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Gaia}
\par 
\par 16.  Given an animal, identify the phylum (not the sub-phylum) into which it is classified, for the stated number of points:
\par a) FFP, humans
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Chordata}
\par b) FFP, lobsters
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Arthropoda}
\par c) FTP, roundworms
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Nematoda}, {\ul Aschelminthes}, or {\ul Nemathelminthes}
\par d) FTP, jellyfish
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Cnidaria} or {\ul Coelenterata}
\par 
\par 17.  Identify the capitals of the following African nations, FFP each:
\par a) Morocco
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Rabat}
\par b) Mauritania
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Nuakchott}
\par c) Ghana
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Accra}
\par d) Zambia
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Lusaka}
\par e) Ethiopia
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Addis Ababa}
\par f) Chad
\par \tab Answer: {\ul N\rquote Djamena}
\par 
\par 18.  Identify the early-twentieth century American authors from works, FTP each:
\par a) {\i O Pioneers!}, {\i My \'c1ntonia}
\par \tab Answer: Willa {\ul Cather}
\par b) {\i Sister Carrie}, {\i An American Tragedy}
\par \tab Answer: Theodore {\ul Dreiser}
\par c) {\i The Gentleman from Indiana}, {\i Alice Adams}, {\i The Magnificent Ambersons}
\par \tab Answer: Booth {\ul Tarkington}
\par 
\par \pard \tx720 19.  Identify the following world leaders:
\par a) FFP, the Prime Minister of Canada
\par \tab Answer: Jean {\ul Chr\'e9tien}
\par b) FFP, the Chancellor of Germany
\par \tab Answer: Gerhard {\ul Schr\'f6der}
\par c) FTP, the President of Poland
\par \tab Answer: Aleksander {\ul Kwasniewski}
\par d) FTP, the President of South Korea
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Kim Dae Jung}
\par \pard 
\par 20.  Identify the following periods in the history of architecture, FTP each:
\par a) The period which reached its peak in the 11th century and was inspired partly by Roman architecture, in particular in the use of vaulting.  Examples include the cathedral at Santiago de Compostela in Spain.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Romanesque}
\par b) The period corresponding to the late Middle Ages, which featured the use of pointed arches.  The most famous example is the cathedral of Amiens in France.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Gothic}
\par c) The period, at its height in the 17th century, which replaced the restrained style of the renaissance with freer and more active architectural forms.  Its late period is sometimes called Rococo.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Baroque}
\par 
\par 21.  Identify the following rhetorical devices, for the stated number of points:
\par a) FFP, a comparison between two things of different kind, usually introduced by \ldblquote like\rdblquote  or \ldblquote as.\rdblquote 
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Simile}
\par b) FTP, the substitution of the name of one thing for that of another with which it is commonly associated.  One special type of this device is synecdoche.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Metonymy}
\par c) F15P, the repetition of a word or expression at the beginning of successive phrases for rhetorical or poetic effect.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Anaphora}
\par 
\par \pard \tx720 22.  Answer the following relating to B.F. Skinner, FTP each:
\par a) Identify the school of psychology, which was inspired partly by the experiments of Ivan Pavlov and holds that humans are controlled entirely by external factors, with which Skinner is most commonly associated.
\par \tab Answer: {\ul Behaviorism}
\par b) Name the founder of behaviorism.
\par \tab Answer: John Broadus {\ul Watson}
\par c) Name Skinner\rquote s 1948 novel based on his principles of social engineering, whose title alludes to a work by Henry David Thoreau.
\par \tab Answer: {\i\ul Walden Two}
\par }