{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f147\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f148\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f150\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f151\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f152\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f153\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f154\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;\red153\green51\blue0;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar
\tx0\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{
\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li360\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin360\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 Definition List;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}{\s17\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Body Text 2;}
}{\info{\title 1}{\author Aaron}{\operator Victor Kao}{\creatim\yr2000\mo2\dy2\hr2\min29}{\revtim\yr2000\mo2\dy3\hr3\min40}{\printim\yr2000\mo2\dy3\hr3\min39}{\version8}{\edmins22}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords3973}{\nofchars22651}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws0}
{\vern8247}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow0
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery1440\footery1440\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s2\qj \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {ROUND 8 TOSSUPS
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 
\par 1. He was born in Hunan Province and later began a promising career as a scholar-administrator. In 1853, he joined Zeng Guo-Fan's Hunan army to fight against the Taipings. In 1860, he was made a
 general and led successful military campaigns in northwest China and Sinkiang. Despite all this, he is most famous for giving his name to a popular Chinese restaurant staple.  FTP, name this man whose name is now inextricably linked with deep fried dark 
meat chicken served with spicy red peppers.\line ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Tso }{\fs22 T'sung-t'ang (Accept: }{\b\fs22\ul General Tso}{\fs22 )
\par \line 2. According to Emperor Rudolf II, Protestants under Hapsburg rule were entitled to certain amounts of religious freedom.Yet in 1617, Roman Catholic officials began 
closing down Protestant chapels in Broumov and Hrob. The rulers of Bohemia arrested the imperial regents for violating the law, found them guilty and, to add insult to injury, tossed them out the window. FTP, name this 1618 event that sparked a Bohemian r
evolt against the Habsburg Emperor Ferdinand II and led, in part, to the Thirty Years War.\line ANSWER: The }{\b\fs22\ul Defenestration of Prague
\par }{\fs22\ul \line }{\fs22 3. He was expelled from his Brooklyn elementary school after he hit his sixth grade teacher.  He became a member of the James St
reet Boys Gang, rose quickly through its ranks, and in 1909 he agreed with to move west with his friend Johnny Torrio and to help him run the booming brothel business in Chicago.  FTP, name this gangster whose bootlegging, prostitution, and gambling rings
 were eventually shut down after he was arrested for tax evasion in 1931.
\par ANSWER: Alphonse}{\fs22\ul  }{\b\fs22\ul Capone}{\fs22  (accept Al or equivalents)
\par \line 4. The first one of these was constructed in orbit around the planet Despayre in the Horuz system and measured 120 km in diameter. 
It was populated by 27,048 officers; 774,576 troops, pilots, and crew; close to 400,000 support crew; and over 25,000 stormtroopers. Its formidable armaments included 5,000 turbolasers and 2,500 ion cannons, but it was most feared for its gigantic superla
ser that was capable of destroying an entire planet. FTP, name this masterpiece of Imperial engineering.
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\fs22\ul Death Star
\par }{\fs22\ul \line }{\fs22 5. The Butterfly that Stamped, The Sing-Song of Old Man Kangaroo, The Beginning of Armadillos, The Elephant's Child, How the Alp
habet Was Made, How the Rhinoceros got his Skin, How the Camel got his Hump, How the Leopard got his Spots. FTP, these are all titles of chapters from what book of "venturesome adventures," a collection of children's stories written and illustrated by Rud
yard Kipling?\line ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Just-So Stories
\par }{\fs22\ul \line }{\fs22 6. Act I begins with a biography of the title playwright followed by three tragedies, two of which are disguised as a cooking show and rap single. Three actors proceed to combine all sixteen of the comedies into one 5-
act play entitled }{\i\fs22 The Love Boat goes to Verona}{\fs22 
. Then it's back to a very Scottish version of a very Scottish play, followed by a football game involving all the histories. Act II consists of only a single play that is repeated backwards. FTP, name this magnum opus of the Reduced Shakespeare Company.
\line ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul The Compleat Works of Wllm }{\b\fs22\ulw Shkspr (abridged)}{\fs22  (pronounced: The Complete Works of William Shakespeare, abridged...only accept the if \'93abridged\'94 is included!)
\par }{\b\fs22 
\par }{\fs22 7. It occurs in part seven of the work of the }{\i\fs22 Republic}{\fs22 . It deals with the illusion of appear
ance as reality, the internal conflict developed when true reality is revealed to the perceiver, and the rejection of the enlightened by the masses.  The enlightened person concerned is said to progress from viewing shadows to reflections to objects to th
e sun itself.  FTP, Name this famous speleological allegory made by Plato.
\par ANSWER:}{\b\fs22   }{\fs22 the}{\b\fs22  }{\b\fs22\ul Allegory of the Cave}{\b\fs22  }{\fs22 (Also accept}{\b\fs22  }{\fs22 \'93}{\b\fs22\ul Plato\rquote s Cave}{\fs22 ,\'94 \'93}{\b\fs22\ul Parable of the Cave}{\fs22 ,\'94}{\b\fs22  }{\fs22 
any substitution of \'93}{\b\fs22\ul den}{\fs22 \'94 for \'93cave\'94)
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {8. In 1541, Spanish explorer Francisco de Orellana reporte
d pitched battles with native tribes that he likened to these mythical warriors who supposedly lived in the Black Sea a very long time ago. The river that gots its name from these accounts has its source 100 miles away from the Pacific Ocean and its basin
 has an area of 2.3 million square miles. FTP, identify this river, the longest in South America.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER:  }{\b\fs22\ul Amazon}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 9. He was passed over for the 1997 Heisman in favor of Charles Woodson.  In the 1997-98 season, he led the University of Tennessee to an 11-2 
record and a sixth-place national ranking.  As of January 5, he is doing the same or better for his current NFL team.  FTP, name this quarterback, who has almost single-handedly reversed the win and loss columns for the Indianapolis Colts.
\par Answer}{\b\fs22 :  }{\fs22 Peyton}{\b\fs22  }{\b\fs22\ul Manning}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 10. After his murder, this man spent a good deal of time in the trunk of a CIA officer\rquote s car before his body was dumped. Viewed by the US government as a communist for his request of Soviet military assistance, he was in fact a nationalist who hel
d power from June-September 1960 and witnessed the secession of Katanga and the military coup of the man who would be his successor. FTP, name this first prime minister of the independent Belgian Congo. 
\par ANSWER: Patrice }{\b\fs22\ul Lumumba
\par }{\b\fs22  }{\fs22 
\par 11. Its fatality rates range from 50-90%. If you have read Richard Preston\rquote s }{\i\fs22 The Hot Zone}{\fs22 , you\rquote ll know that the final stage in the progress of this disease is known as \'93crash and bleed.\'94
 The Zaire strain has a fatality rate of ninety percent, while the Sudan strain kills \'93only\'94 six of every ten victims. FTP, name this hemorrhagic fever which incubates among monkeys in the rain forests of the Congo River valley.
\par Answer}{\b\fs22 :  }{\b\fs22\ul Ebola}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 12. The appearance of one of these in April, 1066, accounts for the battle cry \'93Nova stella, novus rex\'94
 written on the Bayeaux Tapestry. Others which are also well-known are the Whitaker-Thomas and Shoemaker-Levy. They are believed to consist mostly of carbon, oxygen, nitrogen, possibly including organic compounds, and hydrogen that vaporizes wh
en they pass near the sun to form their distinctive tails. FTP, name this class of celestial objects which spend much of their time in the Kuiper Belt.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul comet}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 13. Among the pairs of quantities that it relates are Energy content and a precise time a
nd momentum and position. In Quantum Electrodynamics, its main consequence is the constant advent and annihilation of virtual particle pairs, which exist only in short time increments. FTP, name this tenet of physics that says when you measure any propert
y of a very small particle, you change another \'93conjugate\'94 quantity, and the more precise the measurement you get for one of them, the more erroneous the other will be.
\par ANSWER: Heisenberg\rquote s }{\b\fs22\ul Uncertainty Principle}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 14. Diogenes of Sinope is the most famous advocate of this philosophy. He and his supporters proposed a utopia based on \'93self-sufficiency,\'94 \'93shamelessness,\'94 \'93outspokenness,\'94 and \'93asceticism\'94
 as the path to an ideal life and society. Driven by this dogma, Diogenes would supposedly walked around with 
a lantern in broad daylight, in search of one honest man. FTP, name this Greek philosophical school which was famously distrustful of human nature and motives.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul cynicism}{\fs22  or the }{\b\fs22\ul cynics
\par }{\fs22 
\par \page 15. When observing this American\rquote s progress, Lord Wellington, observing the progress of his expedition, declared that he was lost. Other detractors referred to him as \'93Marshal Tureen\'94, or \'93Old Fuss and Feathers,\'94
 and later mocked his plans for strangling the Confederacy with his \'93Anaconda Plan.\'94 His record as a warrio
r and administrator, however, was one of almost unbroken success. FTP, name this 1852 Whig presidential nominee and former general who helped the United States win the Mexican War.
\par ANSWER: Winfield }{\b\fs22\ul Scott}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 16. It was created because of the Johnson Act of 1934, which forbid monetary loans from the United States to any other countries. It was announced in the \'93Fireside Chat\'94
 of December 29, 1940, and despite the determined opposition of isolationist Republicans, Congress passed it early in 1941. FTP, name this
 program that helped Britain and China hold out against the Axis powers by authorizing President Roosevelt to transfer arms to other countries as he saw fit.
\par ANSWER: \'93}{\b\fs22\ul lend-lease}{\fs22 \'94 program
\par 
\par 17. His lonely 6,000 mile journey across Siberia to study a Russian penal colony resulted in the 1893 sociological work \'93The Island of Sakhalin.\'94  In his own day, he was best known for the short stories which he published in journals\emdash 
among them \'93A Dreary Story,\'94 about a dying physician, and \'93My Life\'94 and \'93Ward Number 6,\'94 both criticisms of Tolstoy\rquote s philosophy of nonviolent withdrawal.  FTP, name this playwright of \'93Ivanov,\'94 \'93Uncle Vanya,\'94 \'93
Three Sisters,\'94 \'93The Cherry Orchard,\'94 and \'93The Seagull.\'94
\par ANSWER: Anton Pavlovich }{\b\fs22\ul Chekhov}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 18. It began in interior design as a reaction
 against the ponderous Baroque style of the palace at Versailles and similar buildings. Its name denoted the shell-covered rock-work that was commonly used to create its characteristic S-shaped natural forms.  It also manifested itself in the at times pla
yful, melancholy, or sensuous paintings of Antoine Watteau, Francois Boucher, and Jean-Honore/ Fragonard.  FTP, name this period in the European arts, also known as Louis XVI, and immediately preceding the Neo-Classical.
\par ANSWER:  }{\b\fs22\ul rococo}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 19. The word has been applied both to a sonata in C minor with a harmonically dense grave (pron: \'93GRAH-vay\'94
) introduction and to a symphony in B minor with a notably slow and gloomy finale.  In both cases, it is meant to suggest an appeal to the serious emotions, especially those related to suffering.  FTP, give the common nickname applied to Beethoven\rquote 
s Sonata No. 8, Opus 13\emdash one of only two sonatas the composer himself named\emdash and to Tchaikovsky\rquote s Sixth Symphony, Opus 74.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Pathetique}{\fs22  (accept }{\b\fs22\ul Pathetic}{\b\fs22  }{\fs22 with a look of disgust)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {20. More than 4.5 times heavier than air, it\rquote 
s both colorless and tasteless. The fission of uranium produces several isotopes of this element, whose mass numbers range from 118 to 144. In 1962 it was combined wi
th Fluorine, the first noble gas that was ever able to do this. For ten points, name this element, number 54 on the periodic table, whose name literally means \'93the alien.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER:  }{\b\fs22\ul Xenon}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 21. She was the daughter of a fanatically Christian land agent, but she broke with her father\rquote s religion in the 1840s.  One of her first works was a translation of Strauss\rquote s \'93Leben Jesu.\'94
 In 1857, the same year she assumed her famous pen name, she published 3 short stories, \'93Scenes of clerical Life.\'94 Her first full-length novel, \'93Adam Bede,\'94 came in 1860. FTP, name this British writer, author of }{\i\fs22 Daniel Deronda}{
\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Romola}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Silas Marner}{\fs22 , and }{\i\fs22 The Mill on the Floss}{\fs22 .
\par ANSWER: George }{\b\fs22\ul Eliot}{\fs22  (accept Mary Ann }{\b\fs22\ul Evans}{\fs22 )
\par 
\par \page 22. Though Norwegian by birth, he has written extensively about the Pacific Islands in such works as }{\i\fs22 Aku-Aku}{\fs22 
. In 1970, he and a crew of seven sailed a papyrus reed boat named the Ra-2 from Morocco to Barbados, proving that the ancient Egyptians could have sailed to the new world. FTP, name this ethnologist and author who sa
iled from Peru to the Tuamotu Islands to test his theory that Polynesia was settled by South American natives in his balsa-wood raft, the Kon-Tiki.
\par ANSWER:  Thor }{\b\fs22\ul Heyerdahl
\par }{\fs22 
\par 23. He was drafted seventh overall two years ago despite being kicked off of the ba
sketball team at the University of Florida the previous year.  Originally from West Virginia, he played for DuPont High school on the same team as Vikings wide receiver Randy Moss and then played for 2 years for Marshall.  FTP, name this Sacramento Kings 
point guard who has electrified the league with his ballhandling and has led his team to third place in the Western division.
\par ANSWER:  Jason }{\b\fs22\ul Williams
\par }{\page }{\b\fs28 ROUND 8 BONI}{\b\fs26 
\par }{\fs22 
\par 1. Given a list of masterpieces of modern architecture, name their designer.  This bonus has three separate parts; you will receive 5 points for one correct answer, 15 for two, 30 for three.
\par a. Unite/ d\rquote Habitation, Church of Notre-dame-du-Haut (pron: \'93hoe\'94), city of Chandigarh, Punjab.
\par }{\fs22\lang1036\langfe1033\langnp1036 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul\lang1036\langfe1033\langnp1036 Le Corbusier}{\fs22\lang1036\langfe1033\langnp1036 , or Charles-Edouard }{\b\fs22\ul\lang1036\langfe1033\langnp1036 Jeaneret}{\fs22\lang1036\langfe1033\langnp1036 

\par }{\fs22 b. Robie House, Johnson Wax Building, Guggenheim Museum in New York, Fallingwater.
\par ANSWER: Frank Lloyd }{\b\fs22\ul Wright}{\fs22 
\par c. Wainwright Building in St. Louis, Auditorium Building and Carson Pirie Scot and Company Building in Chicago.
\par ANSWER: Louis }{\b\fs22\ul Sullivan
\par }{\fs22 
\par 2. FTPE, name these astronomical objects, all of which made it into Charles Messier\rquote s famous catalogue.
\par a. This open cluster, listed as M45, is located in Taurus.  To early observers, it appeared to contain only 7 stars, but telescope-aided observation has revealed at least four more.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Pleiades}{\fs22 
\par b. This remnant of a supernova recorded on July 4, 1054, is in Auriga, and is the first object in the catalogue, M1.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Crab}{\fs22  Nebula
\par c. Despite its name, this emission nebula in Sagittarius is the 17}{\fs22\super th}{\fs22 , not the last entry in the catalogue.  Its name is the same as that of the Greek letter it resembles.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Omega}{\fs22  Nebula
\par \line 3. Given the following World War II battles name one of the two primary commanders for ten points apiece. \line a. El Alamein 
\par ANSWER: Erwin }{\b\fs22\ul Rommel}{\fs22  vs. Bernard Law }{\b\fs22\ul Montgomery}{\b\fs22  
\par }{\fs22 b. Midway 
\par ANSWER: Adm. Chester W. }{\b\fs22\ul Nimitz}{\fs22  vs. Adm. Isoroku }{\b\fs22\ul Yamamoto}{\fs22  
\par c. Stalingrad 
\par ANSWER: Friedrich }{\b\fs22\ul Paulus}{\fs22 , Vasily }{\b\fs22\ul Zhukov}{\fs22  
\par 
\par 4. 30-20-10 Identify the British monarch 
\par 30 - He became heir to the throne when his brother Arthur died and took it seven years later.  He then took Arthur's wife to be his queen. 
\par 20 - When he renewed wars with the French, he left his new queen Governor of the Realm and Captain-General of the forces that would stay in England.  It was she who organized resistance efforts against a surprise Scottish invasion force. 
\par 10 - Unfortunately, when his queen failed to produ
ce a male heir, he decided to go to the Pope to obtain an annulment for their 17-year marriage. He then went on to marry the sister of one of his earlier mistresses whom he would later behead as a result of suspected infidelity.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Henry VIII
\par }{\fs22\ul \line 
\par }{\fs22 \page 5. Given a list of three movies, name the star they share in common, FTPE. (Hint: All of them starred together in a recent film.)
\par  a. }{\i\fs22 One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Throw Mama From the Train}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Get Shorty}{\fs22  
\par ANSWER: Danny }{\b\fs22\ul DeVito 
\par }{\fs22 b. }{\i\fs22 Feeling Minnesota}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 200 Cigarettes}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 The People vs. Larry Flynt}{\fs22  
\par ANSWER: Courtney }{\b\fs22\ul Love}{\b\fs22  
\par }{\fs22 c. }{\i\fs22 Pink Cadillac}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 High Strung}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Simon Birch}{\fs22  
\par ANSWER: Jim }{\b\fs22\ul Carrey
\par }{\fs22\ul 
\par }{\fs22 6. Identify the following Hugo Award winning works from descriptions and characters FTPE. \line a. This Arthur C. Clarke wrote the story for this work which won the 1969 Hugo Award for Best Drama. Characters include David Bowman and Frank Poole.

\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul 2001: A Space Odyssey
\par }{\fs22 b. Characters in this 1971 Larry Niven novel include Louis Wu, Teela Brown and the Speaker to Animals 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Ringworld
\par }{\fs22 c. Characters in this 1953 Alfred Bester novel include Ben Reich, Lincoln Powell and Craye D'Courtney  
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul The Demolished Man
\par }{\fs22\ul \line }{\fs22 7. Trivia buffs around the country have been either cheering or banging their heads against the wall in frustration since the debut of \'93Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?\'94
 Answer the following questions about the game show F15PE. (For all parts of this question, after the team gives their answer be sure to check: "Is that your final answer?" then pause dramatically for about 3 seco
nds and tell them if they are right or wrong.)\line a [15] Here's your first question: How many multiple choice questions do players have to answer in order to win the coveted million dollar prize? 
\par Is it: a. 12 b. 15 c. 17 d. 20 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul B.}{\fs22  15 Questions 
\par b [15]. John Carpenter of Hamden, CT was the first to answer all 15 questions.  FTP, what was the correct answer to his final question: Which of these US Presidents appeared on the television series }{\i\fs22 Laugh-In}{\fs22 ? \line 
Was it: a. Lyndon Johnson b. Gerald Ford c. Richard Nixon d. Jimmy Carter
\par  ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul C}{\fs22 . Richard Nixon
\par 
\par 8. FTPE, name these crusader for women\rquote s suffrage.
\par a.  After studying Greek and Hebrew at Oberlin College so that she could determine if scriptural passages approving the subjugation of women were tran
slated correctly, she married Henry Blackwell, and with him, lobbied individual states to allow women the right to vote until her death in 1893.
\par ANSWER: Lucy }{\b\fs22\ul Stone}{\fs22 
\par b.  The greatest orator of the movement, she achieved national celebrity in 1872 by refusing to pay a $100 fine after she publicly cast a ballot in that year\rquote s presidential election.
\par ANSWER: Susan Brownwell }{\b\fs22\ul Anthony}{\fs22 
\par c.  She worked with Mott on the 1848 \'93Declaration of Sentiments\'94 and with Susan B. Anthony on the New York newspaper \'93Revolution\'94; her concrete achievement was securing a new property law in that state.
\par ANSWER: Elizabeth Cady }{\b\fs22\ul Stanton}{\fs22 
\par }{\b\fs22 
\par }{\fs22 \page 9. Answer the following concerning acid-base chemistry.  Suppose a Bronsted-Lowry acid H}{\fs22\sub 2}{\fs22 A is diprotic, meaning each molecule of the acid contributes two hydrogen nuclei to the water around it.
\par a [5]. FTP, give an equation for the normality of the solution in terms of its molarity.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul N = 2M}{\fs22  (accept equivalents)
\par b [15]. Pencil and paper ready.  180g of H}{\fs22\sub 2}{\fs22 C}{\fs22\sub 2}{\fs22 O}{\fs22\sub 4}{\fs22 , oxalic acid, is dissolved in water and th
e resulting solution is titrated with a solution of lye, NaOH, of unknown concentration.  FFTP, if 10L of the lye is needed to neutralize the solution, what is the molarity of the NaOH solution?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul 0.4}{\fs22  molar
\par c [10]. A substance such as oxyalic acid, which is weighed accurately, dissolved, and titrated as in this example, to assay the concentration of an unknown solution, is called what?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul primary standard}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 10. Remember those Geography Bee questions about the seas named after colors?  Well, here\rquote s a blast from the past, but the hints are a bit harder.  Name these colorful seas from the following descriptions and for the stated number of points.
\par a [5].  The ancient Greeks knew it as the Euxine Sea; the Romans simply called it Pontus.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs22\ul Black}{\fs22  Sea
\par b [10].  Its largest neighboring city is Murmansk.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs22\ul White}{\fs22  Sea
\par c [15].  Northeast of New Zealand, it was the site of a major naval victory for the United States in World War II.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs22\ul Coral}{\fs22  Sea}{\b\fs22 
\par }{\fs22 
\par 11. FTPE, answer the following questions about a recent presidential nominee.
\par a. With a paltry 1% of the vote, this senator came in dead last in the GOP\rquote s recent Iowa caucuses.
\par ANSWER: Orrin }{\b\fs22\ul Hatch}{\fs22 
\par b.  What state does this man represent in the Senate?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Utah
\par }{\fs22 c. Many remember Orrin Hatch best for chairing the controversial 1991 confirmation hearings of this Supreme Court Justice
\par ANSWER: Clarence }{\b\fs22\ul Thomas}{\fs22\cf17 
\par 
\par }{\fs22 12. Time for some Constitutional questions that don\rquote t deal with amendments. Answer the following questions.
\par a. This article of the United States Constitution invests all legislative powers in the House of Representatives and the Senate.
\par Answer}{\b\fs22 :  }{\b\fs22\ul First}{\b\fs22  }{\fs22 Article
\par b. A clause in Article I, section 8 states that Congress shall have the authority "To make all Laws which
 shall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution" the various powers vested in the national government by the Constitution. FTP, give the nickname for this clause. 
\par Answer}{\b\fs22 :  }{\fs22 the}{\b\fs22  \'93}{\b\fs22\ul Elastic}{\b\fs22 \'94 }{\fs22 clause
\par c. This 1819 Supreme Court case concerning Congress\rquote  power to incorporate a national bank held that the elastic clause gave Congress implied powers in addition to its specified ones.
\par Answer}{\b\fs22 :  }{\b\i\fs22\ul McCullough v. Maryland}{\b\fs22 
\par }{\fs22 
\par \page 13. In a few short years, all of you will be staying up late studying for tests or writing papers.  Let\rquote s see how well prepared you are.  FTPE, name each of these natural energy sources.
\par a. This plant lent its name to several joint-stock companies through whose effort many islands of the Orient were explored.
\par Answer}{\b\fs22 :  }{\b\fs22\ul tea}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {b. Coca-Cola has tried
 to break into the Brazilian beverage market by selling their own varieties of energy-boosting drinks made from this soapberry plant native to the Amazon basin. FTP, name this natural source of caffeine.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 Answer}{\b\fs22 :  }{\b\fs22\ul guarana}{\b\fs22  }{\fs22 
\par c [15]. This plant\rquote s leaves, native to the Pampas, are brewed to produce the traditional drink of Argentine gauchos.
\par Answer}{\b\fs22 :  }{\b\fs22\ul yerba}{\b\fs22  }{\fs22 mate}{\b\fs22  (accept mate alone, but not yerba)}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
14. Like many of you suspected, the people running this tournament have taken a lot of drugs. I mean a lot of them. FTP, given a clue, identify the exotic controlled substance.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 a. Like Samuel Coleridge, Victor decided to take this drug, an alcoholic diluti
on of opium, to take a break from editing these questions. He soon started seeing stately pleasure domes and surreal Mongol leaders too.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Laudanum
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 b. Much like his idols David Bowie, Sherlock Holmes and Preist, the hero in the film }{\i\fs22 
Superfly}{\fs22 , Ben likes this drug whose chemical formula is C17H21NO4. Unfortunately, his frequent use has constricted his blood vessels and caused ulcerations in his naval cavity. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Cocaine
\par }{\fs22 c. To ween herself off of smack, Sindy started taking this hydrochloride salt that is soluble in water, alcohol and chloroform. Thanks to this handy miracle of science, she doesn\rquote t suffer from traumatic heroin withdrawl symptoms.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Methadone}{\fs22\cf17 
\par }{\fs22 
\par 15. Name the Shakespearean play, 30-20-10
\par [30] Along with \'93A Midsummer Night\rquote s Dream,\'94 it has characters who have been used in naming the moons of Uranus.
\par [20] It uses several exotic and magical elements and characters, including Caliban and Ariel to suggest a New World location, although the setting is officially an island off the Italian coast.
\par [10] The central character, Prospero, has been shipwrecked with his daughter Miranda on an island and has learned magic there.  Since Prospero has been identified with Sha
kespeare, his pronouncement at the denouement that he is now retiring as a magician has been interpreted as an indication that this Romance was to be the Bard\rquote s last play.
\par ANSWER: }{\i\fs22 The }{\b\i\fs22\ul Tempest}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 16. You may not be familiar with the Titans Hyperion and Theia, who, according to Greek myth, were the first sun dieties. But, FTPE, name their better-known descendants who were associated with the sun and other heavenly bodies.
\par a. This son of Helius and grandson of Hyperion and Theia, after insisting that his father let him drive the chariot of the sun, lost control and had to be struck down by a thuderbolt of Jupiter.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Phaeton}{\fs22 
\par b. A daughter of Hyperion and Thea, and thus aunt of Phaeton, she was the goddess of dawn.
\par ANSWER:  }{\b\fs22\ul Eos}{\fs22 
\par c. This sister of Eos fell in love with the youth Endymion and had Zeus grant him perpetual sleep and perpetual youth; she is sometimes equated with the moon.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Selene}{\fs22 
\par 
\par \page 17. FTSNP, name these celebrated works of Michelangelo.
\par a [5].  Sculpted for the tomb of Julius II in the church of San Pietro in Vincoli, Rome, this huge seated prophet has a long, flowing beard and two small horns atop his forehead.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Moses}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
b [15].  Also intended for the tomb but never completed, this sculpture shows its nearly unclothed subject in an attitude of extreme lassitude, with one arm upraised behind the head and the other hanging across the chest.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\i\fs22 The }{\b\i\fs22\ul Dying Slave}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
c [10]. Twenty-five years after painting the ceiling, Michelangelo covered the west wall of the Sistine Chapel with this fresco.  The panorama centers on a bare-torsoed Christ raising one arm to save the elect and dropping the other to condemn the damned.

\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\i\fs22 The }{\b\i\fs22\ul Last Judgment}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 18. Identify these similarly-named satellites in our solar system, FTPE
\par a.  The only satellite known to have a dense atmosphere with clouds, it is also Saturn\rquote s and the solar system\rquote s largest moon.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Titan}{\fs22 
\par b.  Well-known for its retrograde motion, it has a diameter several hundred miles smaller than our moon\rquote s, but it is still the largest satellite around Neptune.
\par ANWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Triton}{\fs22 
\par c. Little was known about this second-largest of Uranus\rquote  moons until Voyager 2 photographed a deep fault line on the surface that suggested tectonic processes.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Titania}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 19. Given their place on A&E Biography's list of the top 100 people of the millennium and brief clues about their life, identify the following American historic figures FTPE.
\par a. Number 88, this scientist is best known for leading the scientific research of the Manhattan Project, earning him the nickname, "The Father of the Atom Bomb." 
\par }{\fs22\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 ANSWER: J. Robert }{\b\fs22\ul\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 Oppenheimer}{\fs22\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031  
\par }{\fs22 b Number 68, this politician and inventor was the youngest of 17 children. He started off his career as a printer, but later became heavily involved in both civic and national politics.
\par ANSWER: Benjamin }{\b\fs22\ul Franklin}{\fs22  
\par c. This Memphis musician, #57, became an avid martial artist after serving in the Korean War was originally planning to be an electrician until a song he recorded for his mother caught the attention of Sam Phillips, the head of Sun Records. 
\par ANSWER: Elvis }{\b\fs22\ul Presley}{\fs22  (Elvis also beat out FDR, Picasso, Joan of Arc, and Stalin on Biography's list which says something about the plethora of millennial lists which were released during the past few months...)
\par 
\par \page 20. One well-known physics textbook calls the yo-yo \'93a physics lab that you can put n your pocket or purse.\'94  Answer these questions on yo-yo physics, FTPE
\par a.  Suppose that, while the yo-yo- is falling, you jerk upward on the yo-yo string with a tension F which is just large enough to stop the yo-yo\rquote 
s descent.  Then this physical quantity, given in Newton-meters, is the product of the force F and the radius of the yo-yo\rquote s axle.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul torque}{\fs22 
\par b.  Later, the yo-yo is spinning but stationary at the bottom of its path fast enough that a particle of mass 1 gram on the outer edge of the yo-yo has instantaneous speed 10cm/sec cm/sec.  Give, with proper units, the magnitude of the particle\rquote 
s angular momentum if the radius of the yo-yo itself is 4cm
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul 40 grams-centimeters-per-second}{\fs22 , or equivalent
\par c.  Finally, if you put the yo-yo down on a table top and roll it, this is the path in space traced out by the particle on the rim
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul cycloid}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 21. Mythology is filled with instances of dubious taste. FTPE, answer the following questions.
\par a. Apollo fell in love with this woman and while she was running away, she called to her father, the nearby river god, to help herout. He turned her into a tree. Great going Dad.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Daphne
\par }{\fs22 b. Zeus came to this woman in the form of a swan. One thing led to another between this woman-bird pair and their union produced Helen and Pollux.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Leda
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
c. This Canaanite god dear to Jezebel took Anath, his own sister, as a consort and sired a divine bull calf from a heifer.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Baal
\par }{\fs22 
\par 22. Answer the following concerning an ancient naval battle, for the stated number of points.
\par a [10].  FTP, what 31 B.C. battle, in the Ambracian gulf off Greece, is usually considered the end of the period of the Roman Civil Wars and the beginning of the Empire?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Actium}{\fs22 
\par b [5]. FFPE, who were the two allies who were defeated at Actium.
\par ANSWER: Mark }{\b\fs22\ul Antony}{\fs22  and }{\b\fs22\ul Cleopatra}{\fs22  VII
\par c [10]. Together with his nemesis Octavian, Mark Antony belonged to a group of Roman oligarchs known as the Second Triumvirate. FTP, what Roman general, earlier defeated by Octavian, also originally belonged to this triumvirate?
\par ANSWER: Marcus Aemilius }{\b\fs22\ul Lepidus
\par 
\par }{\fs22 23. Do you know your saints? I don\rquote t, but I\rquote m expecting you to answer these questions anyway.
\par a.  Considered the founder and father of Christian monasticism, he spent his whole life struggling against the temptations of the devil.
\par ANSWER: St. }{\b\fs22\ul Anthony}{\fs22 
\par b. In John 14:22-23, after the Last Supper, this saint asks Jesus, "Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us, and not to the world?"  He is also the patron of desperate causes in Germany and France.
\par ANSWER: St. }{\b\fs22\ul Jude}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Judas}{\fs22  }{\b\fs22\ul Thaddaeus}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Lebbaeus}{\fs22 
\par c. Traditionally, this saint was a missionary to places like Ethiopia and Armenia, and was supposedly flayed and beheaded at the command of the Armenian king.
\par ANSWER: St. }{\b\fs22\ul Bartholomew}{
\par }}