{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f147\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f148\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f150\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f151\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f152\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f153\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f154\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f155\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}
{\f156\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f158\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f159\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f160\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f161\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}
{\f162\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;\red153\green51\blue0;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 
heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs15 \additive \f1\fs20 \sbasedon10 normal1;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}{\s17\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Title;}{
\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text 2;}{\s19\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 Body Text 3;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-1248792218\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat10\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\'03(\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'02;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-510\li510\jclisttab\tx510 }{\listname ;}\listid204949894}{\list\listtemplateid-1616109224\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0
\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat10\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'03(\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'02;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-510\li510\jclisttab\tx510 }{\listname ;}\listid507411159}
{\list\listtemplateid2048962580\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat5\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'03(\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'02;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 
\fi-390\li390\jclisttab\tx390 }{\listname ;}\listid760486908}{\list\listtemplateid1497632854\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat10\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'03(\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'02;}
\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-510\li510\jclisttab\tx510 }{\listname ;}\listid1113673036}{\list\listtemplateid1221880722\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0
\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1567717544}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1567717544\listoverridecount0\ls1}
{\listoverride\listid760486908\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid507411159\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid1113673036\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid204949894\listoverridecount0\ls5}}{\info
{\title 4/4 Math/Science (Really simple comp sci, AP Calculus level math at the}{\author Ramey Ko}{\operator Victor Kao}{\creatim\yr2000\mo2\dy2\hr2\min39}{\revtim\yr2000\mo2\dy3\hr3}{\printim\yr2000\mo2\dy3\hr2\min41}{\version5}{\edmins8}{\nofpages10}
{\nofwords3302}{\nofchars18826}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\qj \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {1}{\super st}{ PLAYOFF ROUND TOSSUPS}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 
\par 1. The name\rquote s the same. One started as a pitcher in the Dodgers organization and lost 24 games for the original Mets; the other was a running back drafted out of Nebraska in 1983 who became the first player to run and catch for 1
000 yards in the same season.  FTP, give the shared name of these San Francisco sports figures, one a Giants manager in the late 80's, the other the 49ers halfback who teamed with Joe Montana.
\par ANSWER: Roger }{\b\fs22\ul Craig}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 2. Though written by an American author with no firsthand knowledge of Japan, this 1999 bestseller was acclaimed for its attention to detail and the clarity of voice of the lead character.\~
The novel chronicles the life of Nitta Sayuri, sold into a slavery of tea ceremonies and social conversation.\~
She lives through the highlife of 1940's Kyoto, and then through the turmoil and aftermath of the Second World War. FTP, name this novel by Arthur Golden.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Memoirs of a Geisha}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 3. Bile acids and hormones like testosterone are derivative of this sub
stance.  Synthesized in the liver, it is an integral component of cell membranes, where it increases membrane fluidity.  Because of its hydrophobic character, it is transported in the blood in lipoproteins like LDL.  FTP, name this substance found in grea
t abundance in fast food and associated with animal fat.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul cholesterol}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
4. They originally formed as an organization designed to survey police procedures and alert the local community to authoritarian abuses. Their misison broadened in scope and ambit
ion though. For example, they started schools and breakfast programs and their demands included a separate homeland for African-Americans and retrial of black prisoners by a jury of their true peers. FTP, name this militant political organization founded 
by Huey Newton and Bobby Seale.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER: The }{\b\fs22\ul Black Panther}{\fs22  Party (ACC: }{\b\fs22\ul Black Panthers}{\fs22 )
\par 
\par 5. Originating in east-central Poland in the 16}{\fs22\super th}{\fs22  century, this remained a peasant dance despite being adopted by the court.  It involves a circle of couples that stamp t
heir feet and click their heels, and is traditionally accompanied by bagpipe music.  FTP, name this dance in \'be time with the accent on the second beat.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul mazurka}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {6.  This deity\rquote s bliss was interrupted when her uncle kidnapped and raped her. Her moth
er grief at the loss caused brought on winter and only her 6-month return back to earth each year could bring back spring\rquote s warmth. If she hadn\rquote t eaten that pesky pomegranate, she\rquote 
d have been able to stay out of Hades. FTP, name this goddess, featured with her husband in the Merchant\rquote s Tale in \'93The Canterbury Tales.\'94
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Proserpina}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Persephone}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 7. They are not bacteriophages, but they are common vectors for genetic engineering. In nature, they often confer antibiotic resistance, so they are usually ac
tivated using antibiotics. Artificial ones usually have several convenient restriction sites to facilitate insertion of foreign DNA. FTP, name these small, circular pieces of DNA found in bacteria.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Plasmids}{\fs22 
\par 
\par \page 8. This political leader, born in 1938, took a scholarship to military school in Lima, Peru.\~
Returning to his country, he aided Captain Omar Torrijos in unseating President Arnulfo Arias, and after Torrijos' death in 1981, he made himself a military dictator. Increasing evidence of drug traffic
king and the brutal political oppression forced the US to drive him out.\~FTP, name this political leader overthrown and captured by the US invasion of Panama in 1989.
\par ANSWER: Manuel }{\b\fs22\ul Noriega}{\fs22 
\par }{\fs22\cf17 
\par }{\fs22 9. He was born in Germany, but later specialized in child psychoanalysis. }{\fs22\cgrid0 He studied groups of Native American children to help formulate his theories, correlating personality growth with parental and societal values.}{\fs22 
 FTP, name this American psychoanalyst who made major contributions to the field of child psychological development, developed the concept of \'93identity crisis,\'94 and authored the 1950 book, }{\i\fs22 Childhood and Society}{\fs22 .
\par ANSWER:  Erik }{\b\fs22\ul Erikson}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 10. Along with celery and onions, this vegetable is used to add flavor and color to dishes in the French cooking technique kn
own as a mirapois. In Cajun cooking, it is often replaced with bell pepper. A rich source of provitamin A, this plant was native to Afghanistan and the surrounding area, but was cultivated in Europe as early as the Middle Ages. FTP, name this edible tapro
ot vegetable, rich in beta-carotene and favorite of Bugs Bunny.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul carrot}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 11. LC circuits have this property, because the location of the current alternates between the inductor and the capacitor. Chemical compounds have it if more than one Lewis dot 
diagram can be drawn for them. Unfortunately, the Tacoma Narrows Bridge had it too. FTP, name this property, which in physics refers to the potential for vibrations of a given wavelength to excite sympathetic vibrations in an object.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Resonance}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }{\fs22\cf1\cgrid0 12. She graduated from Smith College in 1956 and began working as a freelance journalist in India. In 1971, she helped found the National Women\rquote 
s Political Caucus, which encouraged women to run for political office. Her rather feminine looks had unenlightened
 journalists baffled about why she became a feminist in the first place. At one point, rumor also had it that she was dating Henry Kissinger. FTP, name this famous feminist and founder of }{\i\fs22\cf1\cgrid0 Ms. Magazine}{\fs22\cf1\cgrid0 .}{\fs22 

\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {ANSWER: Gloria }{\b\ul Steinem
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 
\par 13. Expressed as three formula
tions of essentially the same principle, Immanuel Kant presented this important mechanism for determining the moral worth of human action. The first and most familiar formulation requires the maxim of action to be able to exist as universal law. FTP, what
 ethical concept, introduced in the }{\i\fs22 Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals}{\fs22 , is the moral alternative to the hypothetical imperative?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul categorical imperative}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 14. Carl Heine\rquote s body is found floating, entangled in a net behind his drifting boat. A traumatic head wound points to another local fisherman when blood is discovered on a wooden gaff on the fisherman\rquote 
s boat. Ishmael Chambers, a local reporter covering the murder trial, is forced to confront a childhood romance with the fisherman\rquote s wife. FTP, name this novel and new film about Japanese-Americans living in a Washington town.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Snow Falling on Cedars
\par }{\fs22 
\par \page 15. Based in Dulles, Virginia, this corporation has recently taken a risky venture, expanding its reach by purchasing another company at $108
 a share, a premium over its market price of $64.75 a share. This move grants the Virginia company control over brands such as HBO, Sports Illustrated, Entertainment Weekly, and the Cartoon Network. Announced on Monday, January 10, 2000, name, FTP, this I
nternet company.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul AOL}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul America Online
\par }{\fs22 
\par 16. He ruled Egypt in the 13th c. BC, a king of the 19th Dynasty of the New Kingdom, and shares his name with 10 other Egyptian kings. He is notable for the length of his reign, the second longest of any phara
oh, as well as for his battles with the Lybians and Hittites.\~ His most enduring legacy, however, is the wealth of statues and temples to him that still stand throughout Egypt, including Karnak, Luxor, and Abu Simbel.\~
 FTP, name this pharaoh, son of Seti I.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Ramses II}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Ramses the Great
\par }{\fs22 
\par 17. The people of this five island-group possess the only Semitic language written in Latin script. This nation\rquote s cultural history reflects influences ranging from Arab to Norman to English. With its capital at Vall
eta, it gained its independence from Great Britian on September 21, 1964. FTP, name this island nation, lying 58 miles south of the coast of Sicily, home to a famous literary Jew and a falcon familiar to Sam Spade.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Malta}{\fs22 , or }{\b\fs22\ul Republic of Malta}{\fs22 , }{\b\fs22\ul Repubblika Ta\rquote Malta
\par }{\fs22 
\par 18. Auguste Kekule (KEK-you-lay) discovered the structure of this compound after dreaming about a snake biting its own tail. It has unusual stability due to its alternating single and double bonds, a property called aromaticity. Responsibl
e for the odor of gasoline, FTP, name the organic solvent with formula C6H6.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul benzene}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 19. His early works, for the 1922 series }{\i\fs22 Evenings of Young Ballet}{\fs22 , were criticized as being too avant-garde, but this Russian-American choreographer is now regard
ed as one of the foremost choreographers in ballet, particularly of the neo-classical style. FTP, name this choreographer of }{\i\fs22 The Four Temperaments}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Jewels}{\fs22 , and }{\i\fs22 Apollon Musag\'e8te}{\fs22 
 who co-founded what later became the New York City Ballet.
\par ANSWER: George }{\b\fs22\ul Balanchine}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 20. According to creator Shinji Mikami, the third installment in this series, subtitled Nemesis, is intended for experts only. The next installment, for Dreamcast, will be called Code Veronica, and will be the first one set outside Raccoon City. It 
will continue the adventures of Chris Redfield\rquote s sister Claire from the second game in, FTP, what Playstation adventure-game series featuring lots and lots of zombies?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Resident Evil}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 21. Raised in Lake Charles, Louisiana, he earned degrees in medieval studies and theater from Columbia and NYU. His first major play, }{\i\fs22 A Bright Room Called Day}{\fs22 
, was produced in 1985, but he gained international acclaim for a two-part epic drama which won a Pulitzer Prize and two Tony Awards. FTP, name this American playwright, author of }{\i\fs22 Millenium Approaches}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 Perestroika}{\fs22 
, the two sections of }{\i\fs22 Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia and National Themes}{\fs22 .
\par ANSWER: Tony }{\b\fs22\ul Kushner}{\fs22 
\par 
\par \page 22. It came into existence near the end of the settlement period of the country, around 900 AD.\~ At tha
t time, this general assembly was held once a year, at midsummer at a site called the Thingvellir. It consisted of a law council, or logretta, in which priest-chieftains called godar made and amended the laws. Now it is a 63-member parliament that lays cl
aim to being the oldest legislative assembly in the world. FTP, name this parliament of Iceland.
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\fs22\ul Althing}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 23. This comic playwright and novelist was born in England in 1871.\~ After a stint as a POW in Berlin, he became a US citizen in 1955. This
 did not keep the British government from knighting him 20 years later, perhaps because his works celebrated and lovingly satirized the culture of British public schools and the late Edwardian era.\~
FTP, name this author, the creator of bachelor Bertie Wooster and his perfect manservant, Jeeves. 
\par ANSWER: P.G. }{\b\fs22\ul Wodehouse
\par \page }{\b\fs28 1}{\b\fs28\super st}{\b\fs28  PLAYOFF ROUND BONI}{\b\fs20 
\par }{\fs22 
\par 1. You've just got to love colonialism.\~ Foreign powers come in, take over, and then they pick their own name for your country.\~ FTPE, given the colonial name of an African country, give its current name.
\par a. Upper Volta
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Burkina Faso}{\fs22 
\par b. (Northern) Rhodesia
\par }{\fs22\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 Zimbabwe}{\fs22\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 
\par c. Nyasaland
\par }{\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Malawi}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 2. FTP each, identify the comic strip from the names of some of its collections.
\par a.  }{\i\fs22 Take Us To Your Mall}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 At Least This Place Sells T-Shirts}{\fs22 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Fox Trot}{\b\fs22\ul 
\par }{\fs22 b.  }{\i\fs22 It\rquote s a Magical World}{\fs22 ; }{\i\fs22 There\rquote s Treasure Everywhere}{\fs22 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Calvin and Hobbes}{\b\fs22\ul 
\par }{\fs22 c.  }{\i\fs22 The Chickens Are Restless}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Cows of Our Planet}{\fs22 
\par ANSWER: }{\i\fs22 The }{\b\i\fs22\ul Far Side}{\fs22\cf17 
\par }{\fs22 
\par 3. Identify these things associated with neurons FTPE.
\par a.  The gap between the dendrites of one neuron and the axon of another is called this.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Synapse}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Synaptic Gap
\par }{\fs22 b.  Long neurons often possess a sheath of this non-conductive, fatty substance.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Myelin}{\b\fs22 
\par }{\fs22 c.  The nerve impulse jumps between gaps in the myelin sheath, which are called these.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Nodes of Ranvier
\par }{\cs15\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs15 
4. The traditions of many cultures have a fondness for higher beings destroying the vice-ridden population of the world and leaving a few humans with the exhausting task of repopulating 
the earth, all without Viagra. Ignoring the mechanics of this daunting task, answer these questions FTPE about how different groups do it.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs15\fs22 
a. The Christian Old Testament and the Jewish Torah prefer the flood method, leaving what old boat-building patriarch and his sons to rebuild?
\par }{\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Noah}{\fs22 
\par b. After Ragnarok, the entire cosmos is destroyed, except, for some odd reason, a forest, in which two humans somehow managed to sleep through the commotion. Name either one of these deep slumberers.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Lif}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Liftrasir}{\fs22 
\par c. The Sumerians enjoyed the whole flood theme too. In the epic of Gilgamesh, name the man who builds an ark to survive a great flood, analogue to Noah.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Utnapishtim}{\fs22 
\par 
\par \page 5. Answer these questions related to sonnets, FTPE.
\par a. Many of his sonnets were collected in the }{\i\fs22 Canzoniere}{\fs22 , and were addressed to his beloved Laura.
\par ANSWER:  }{\b\fs22\ul Petrarch}{\fs22 
\par b. Influenced by Petrarch, his }{\i\fs22 Amoretti}{\fs22  was a collection of love sonnets, but it is not as famous as another work of his, }{\i\fs22 The Faerie Queene}{\fs22 .
\par ANSWER:  Edmund }{\b\fs22\ul Spenser}{\fs22 
\par c. Her }{\i\fs22 Sonnets from the Portuguese}{\fs22  was dedicated to her husband and written secretly before her marriage.
\par ANSWER: Elizabeth Barrett }{\b\fs22\ul Browning}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 6. Answer these questions about the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, FTPE.
\par a. The invasion began on December 24th of what year?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul 1979}{\fs22 
\par b. The United States provided aid to these Stinger missile wielding rebels who made life difficult for the Soviet military. Unfortunately for us, they would also some of the ranks of the troublesome Taliban
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Mujahidin}{\fs22  (}{\i\fs22 moo-jah-ha-deen}{\fs22 )
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
c. Increasing pressure from this other Islamic country, which had supplied many of the weapons that began causing major Soviet casualties, forced Mikhail Gorbachev to begin withdrawing his troops from the territory.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Pakistan}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 7. After Japan gave us Pokemon, Anime fans everywhere cringed at the public\rquote s conception of what Japanese cartoons are like. Hopefully, that mistaken image will be corrected, but not by this bonus. Answer these questions about Pokemon FTPE.
\par a. These identical looking girls are all cousins, but share the same name. Found in every town, they are judgmental, but can be helpful. Keeping the peace, they are not to be confused with the equally massive family of cousins in the nursing profession.

\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Officer Jenny}{\fs22 
\par b. Ash, the intrepid hero of the city, and Professor Oak, a Pokemon expert, both hail from what city?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Pallet}{\fs22 
\par c. Everyone knows that Pokemon can evolve into higher and more powerful forms, but not everyone knows what Pikachu evolves into. Name the evolved form of Pikachu.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Raichu}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 8. Answer the following questions relating to the frozen tundra, though not to Lambeau Field, FTP each.
\par a.  The distinctive frozen part of the tundra is its subsoil, which is also called this.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul permafrost
\par }{\fs22 b.  Tundra is an example of one of these major ecological communities, which are defined by both their climate and their associated climax species.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul biome}{\fs22 
\par c.  If tundra can be considered the northernmost biome, this is the one just south of it, distinguished by evergreen trees.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul taiga}{\fs22 
\par 
\par \page 9. FTP each, name these basketball players.  Hint: all of them can be found on the Legends teams in NBA Live 2000.
\par a.  Best known for a 1965 steal to clinch a Celtics playoff win, this versatile forward played with Jerry Lucas at Ohio State.
\par ANSWER: John }{\b\fs22\ul Havlicek
\par }{\fs22 b.  This former Warriors forward, known for shooting free throws underhanded, has three sons in the NBA.
\par ANSWER: Rick }{\b\fs22\ul Barry
\par }{\fs22 c.  A Hall-of-Famer as both a player and coach, this current Hawks head coach once played point guard for that team.
\par ANSWER: Lenny }{\b\fs22\ul Wilkens}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 10. Name the humorous children\rquote s work from clues, for 10 points each.
\par a. Belinda, who is as brave as a barrel full of bears, has four pets, Ink, Blink, Mustard, and Custard. Everyone thinks the title creature is a coward until he saves Belinda from a pirate. Ogden Nash wrote this book.
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul The Tale of Custard the Dragon}{\fs22 
\par b. In this book by Judith Viorst, Alexander wakes up with gum in his hair, trips on a skateboard, and drops his sweater into the sink. Things aren\rquote t looking good.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22 c. A little girl lives in the Plaza Hotel in New York in this book for precocious grown-ups by Kay Thompson
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Eloise
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22 
\par 11. For the stated number of points, all or nothing, give the charge of the following ions with the correct sign.
\par a. (5 points) Sulfate, SO4
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul -2}{\fs22  (acc. obvious equivalents on all answers)
\par b. (10 points) Nitrate, NO3
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul -1}{\fs22  
\par c. (5 points) Ammonium, NH4
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul +1
\par }{\fs22 d. (10 points) Permanganate, MnO4
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul -1}{\b\i\fs22\ul 
\par }{\b\fs22\ul 
\par }{\fs22 12. Britain recently announced that the fate of a former dictator was yet to be decided, mostly due to the failing health of the accused. Answer these questions surrounding the controversy, FTPE.
\par a. Name the former Chilean dictator who is currently being held by Britain, accused of human rights violations.
\par ANSWER: Augusto }{\b\fs22\ul Pinochet}{\fs22 
\par b. What other European nation is pressing for Pinochet\rquote s extradition to stand trial for human rights violations?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Spain}{\fs22 
\par c. What global human rights organization, symbolized by a candle surrounded by barbed wire, has been a key player in the legal proceedings over Pinochet\rquote s fate?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Amensty International
\par }{\fs22 
\par \page 13. Answer these questions about locations that enjoy changing their names, FTSNP.
\par a. For 5 points each, name the two present day countries that comprise the island Columbus named Hispaniola.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Domintion Republic}{\b\fs22  }{\fs22 and }{\b\fs22\ul Haiti}{\fs22 
\par b. For 10 points, the former nation of Zaire is now known by what name?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Democratic Republic of Congo}{\fs22  (Prompt on \'93Congo\'94)
\par c. For 10 points, European traders referred to Taiwan as this, meaning \'93beautiful island.\'94
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Formosa
\par }{\fs22 
\par 14. Identify these painting mediums, FTPE.
\par a. Painting with powdered pigments made workable by egg-yolk and water, it was used in Europe from the early Middle Ages until the sixteenth-century. 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul tempera}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
b. Wall and ceiling painting on fresh moist lime plaster with pigments ground in water so that they are absorbed into the plaster.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul fresco}{\fs22 
\par c. A opaque watercolor paint.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul gouache}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 15. Answer these questions about electric circuits FTP each.
\par a.  A set of capacitors connected in this way will have a total capacitance equal to the sum of the individual capacitances.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul parallel}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {b.  According to Kirchoff\rquote s loop 
rule, the total value of this property around any closed loop is zero.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul voltage}{\b\fs22  }{\fs22 or }{\b\fs22\ul potential difference
\par }{\fs22 c.  An ideal voltmeter has this much resistance.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul infinity}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 16. Given the title of spy fiction novels, give their authors, FSNP.
\par a. [5] }{\i\fs22 From Russia, With Love}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 On Her Majesty's Secret Service}{\fs22 
\par ANSWER: Ian }{\b\fs22\ul Fleming}{\fs22 
\par b. [10] }{\i\fs22 The Spy Who Came in from the Cold}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 The Perfect Spy}{\fs22 
\par ANSWER: John }{\b\fs22\ul Le Carr\'e9}{\fs22 
\par c. [15] }{\i\fs22 The Odessa File}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 The Day of the Jackal}{\fs22 
\par ANSWER: Frederick }{\b\fs22\ul Forsyth}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 17. Identify the sculptors from works, FTSNP.
\par a. [5] The doors of the Florence Baptistry
\par ANSWER: Lorenzo }{\b\fs22\ul Ghiberti}{\fs22 
\par b. [10] }{\i\fs22 St. George}{\fs22 , at Orsanmichele, Florence.
\par }{\fs22\lang1040\langfe1033\langnp1040 ANSWER:  }{\b\fs22\ul\lang1040\langfe1033\langnp1040 Donatello}{\fs22\lang1040\langfe1033\langnp1040  (ACC: Donato Bardi)
\par }{\fs22 c. [15] Bird in Space
\par ANSWER: Constantin }{\b\fs22\ul Brancusi}{\fs22 
\par 
\par \page 18. Name these books of the Bible from descriptions, F15PE.
\par a. Of the four Gospels of Christ, this one is thought to have been written the earliest, as it contains the simplest language, has no story not found in one of the other gospels, and is split only into Jesus\rquote  teachings, and the
n his passion, death, and resurrection.
\par ANSWER: The Gospel of }{\b\fs22\ul Mark}{\fs22 
\par b. One of the most significant books of prophecy in the Old Testament, it is the first to refer to Lucifer, the Morning Star, as well as predict the coming of the Messiah.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Isaiah}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 19. FTPE, answer these questions about a Latin American poet.
\par a. Born Neftali Ricardo Reyes Basoalto, he took his pseudonym to hide from his father, who discouraged his writing.\~ He also became a diplomat and politician for his home country of Chile, and won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1971.
\par ANSWER: Pablo }{\b\fs22\ul Neruda}{\fs22 
\par b. Neruda exercised his leftist leanings by campaigning for this man, who was elected as the first Marxist president of Chile in 1970 for the Popular Unity party, a bloc of Socialists, Communists, and Radicals.
\par }{\fs22\lang3082\langfe1033\langnp3082 ANSWER: Salvador }{\b\fs22\ul\lang3082\langfe1033\langnp3082 Allende}{\fs22\lang3082\langfe1033\langnp3082  (ay-en-de)
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {c. Because of his political beliefs, Neruda spent much of his life in exile around the world.\~
 A 1994 Italian movie based its story around Neruda's temporary stay on a small Italian island and the help and friendship the romantic poet provides to the local lovestruck mailman.\~ Name the film.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Il Postino}{\fs22  or }{\b\i\fs22\ul The Postman}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 20. Identify these archaeologists from their finds, FTPE.
\par a. The tombs of the Greek Mycenaen kings and the city of Troy, in the hill of Hissarlik, in Turkey.
\par ANSWER: Heinrich }{\b\fs22\ul Schliemann}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
b. In 1947, this husband-wife team found the skull of Proconsul Africanus, a primate ancestor that lived 25 million years ago. In 1959, they also discovered the Zinjanthropus skull that suggested that east Africa was the cradle of mankind.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER:  Louis and Mary }{\b\fs22\ul Leakey}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {c. Machu Picchu, Inca city in the Andes Mountains.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER:  Hiram }{\b\fs22\ul Bingham}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 21. Name these submarines, FTPE.
\par a. The first submarine for use in war was built for the American Revolution by David Bushnell, a Yale student.\~ It was a one-man wooden craft shaped like a walnut and powered by hand-cranked propellers.\~
 In the actual battle, though, it failed as miserably as its sluggish aquatic namesake might have. Name it.
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\fs22\ul Turtle}{\fs22 
\par b. Several years before he built the steamship Clermont, Robert Fulton tried his hand at submarines under a grant from Napoleon Bonaparte. It shares its name with Jules Verne's famous fictional submarine that would appear 73 years later.
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\fs22\ul Nautilus}{\fs22 
\par c. This class of submarines are the mainstay of the Russian strategic missile submarine force. A fictional example of this class shows up in }{\i\fs22 The Hunt for Red October}{\fs22 .
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\fs22\ul Typhoon}{\fs22  Class
\par 
\par \page 22. Identify these Czech composers, FTPE.
\par a. His use of Czech and Slavonic folk music reflects his deep national consciousness, while his experiences in America as director of the National Conservatory of Music in New York also influenced his works, which include \'93Humoresque\'94 and the }{
\i\fs22 New World Symphony}{\fs22 .
\par ANSWER: Anton\'edn }{\b\fs22\ul Dvor\'e1k}{\caps\fs22 
\par }{\fs22 b. Continuing to compose some of his greatest works even after his sudden deafness in 1874, his works include }{\i\fs22 The Bartered Bride}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 The}{\fs22  }{\i\fs22 Moldau.
\par }{\fs22 ANSWER: Bedrich }{\b\fs22\ul Smetana}{\fs22 
\par c. The most eminent Czech composer of the twentieth century, he derived his style from Moravian folk music.  His works include }{\i\fs22 Jenufa}{\fs22 , a }{\i\fs22 Slavonic Mass}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 The Cunning Little Vixen}{\fs22 , and}{\i\fs22 
 The Makropolis Affair}{\fs22 .
\par ANSWER: Leos }{\b\fs22\ul Jan\'e1cek
\par }{\fs22 
\par 23. FTPE, name these ranks of governmental offices of ancient Rome.
\par a. This was one of the lower ranking offices, but it was sacred for its curation of temples.\~ That job was later extended to all public buildings and works.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul aedile}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {b. Directly under the consul, this office put the holder in charge of judicial courts and public games.\~
 When the consul was absent from Rome, this officer exercised authority in his stead.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul praetor}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
c. After serving as consul, a man was often given this office, an extension of his consular powers after the year-long term.\~ These officers frequently governed senatorial provinces far from Rome.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul proconsul
\par }}