{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f33\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f34\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f36\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f37\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f38\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f39\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f40\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 
heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx1530\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf6\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{
\s16\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Title;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Body Text 2;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 
Body Text 3;}{\s19\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 Body Text 2;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-1196673028\listhybrid{\listlevel
\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698713\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698713\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698715\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-180\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698703\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698713\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698715\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-180\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698703\'02\'06.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698713\'02\'07.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698715\'02\'08.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-180\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480 }
{\listname ;}\listid850417180}{\list\listtemplateid2124966552\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat10\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'03(\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'02;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-390\li390\jclisttab\tx390 }{\listname ;}\listid1120756934}{\list\listtemplateid-1587132902\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat10\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'03(\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'02;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-510\li510\jclisttab\tx510 }{\listname ;}\listid1194150998}{\list\listtemplateid-857956070\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat10\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'03(\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'02;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-390\li390\jclisttab\tx390 }{\listname ;}\listid1545209961}{\list\listtemplateid545191032
\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat10\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'03(\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'02;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-510\li510\jclisttab\tx510 }
{\listname ;}\listid1660033275}{\list\listtemplateid1379284336\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat5\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'03(\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'02;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1937013508}{\list\listtemplateid356261558\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat15\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'03(\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'02;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-390\li390\jclisttab\tx390 }{\listname ;}\listid1955289914}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1937013508\listoverridecount0\ls1}
{\listoverride\listid1120756934\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid1955289914\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid1545209961\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid850417180\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid1194150998
\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid1660033275\listoverridecount0\ls7}}{\info{\title 4/4 Math/Science (Really simple comp sci, AP Calculus level math at the}{\author Ramey Ko}{\operator Victor Kao}{\creatim\yr2000\mo2\dy2\hr2\min37}
{\revtim\yr2000\mo2\dy2\hr3\min55}{\printim\yr2000\mo1\dy13\hr22\min24}{\version5}{\edmins3}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords3423}{\nofchars19512}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\qj \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {ROUND 3 TOSSUPS
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 
\par 1. He was educated at Harvard University and the Curtis Institute of Music and made his conducting debut with the New York Philharmonic Society Orchestra in 1943. This composer, conductor and pianist is known for works including }{\i\fs22 
Chichester Psalms}{\fs22 . REM liked him enough to mention him in \'93It\rquote s the End of the World as We Know It (and I Feel Fine).\'94 FTP, name the man who wrote }{\i\fs22 Candide}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 West Side Story}{\fs22 .
\par ANSWER: Leonard }{\b\fs22\ul Bernstein}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 2. According to one poem, it is described as a confessor to tell your sins to, but "careless of the laws you have broken." In another, it trails and creeps across the lake at night.\~ Sometimes it engages in violent battle, "sky-driven and sea-blown."\~
 But most famously, it comes on little cat feet, and looks over the harbor and city on silent haunches, and then moves on.\~ FTP, name this weather pattern, vividly described by Carl Sandburg.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Fog
\par }{\fs22 (NOTE: Ya know, Carl Sandburg died in North Carolina.)
\par 
\par 3. Its Bohr radius is 53 picometers, and its ionization energy is 1312 kilojoules/mole. If you add enough of it to acetylene, you get ethane. Its electromagnetic spectrum is described
 by the Rydberg equation, which accounts for the Paschen series and the Lyman series in addition to the Balmer series. FTP, name this flammable element of atomic number 1 which you can use to make a really powerful bomb.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul hydrogen}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 4. This group beg
an in the 1950s with clandestine activities against the government of Prince Norodom Sihanouk, but they weren't officially organized until 1967.  Operating as the armed wing of the Communist Party of Kampuchea, they led a guerilla war from the countryside
, finally capturing the capital of Phnom Penh in 1975.\~FTP, name this political and military group that controlled Cambodia until 1979 under the brutal rule of Pol Pot.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Khmer Rouge}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 5. Husband to Dawn and father to Rex, he appeared one day behind th
e couch when one brilliant MIT graduate determined that all dinosaurs could not possibly be extinct. Dressed in red sneakers, he now frequently appears to give wedgies to various annoying segments of the population, or to enforce the will of one megaloman
iacal dog.  FTP, name the dumb, cheerful dinosaur companion and housemate of Dogbert and Dilbert.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Bob}{\fs22  the Dinosaur
\par 
\par 6. Thomas Jefferson called this political theorist and philosopher one of three greatest men that ever lived.  Developing the harsher
, more absolutist theories of Hobbes, this son of an attorney was strongly influenced by the ideas of John Owen, and was a primary inspiration for the U.S. Declaration of Independence.  Name, FTP, the author of }{\i\fs22 
An Essay Concerning Human Understanding}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 Two Treatises on Government.
\par }{\fs22 ANSWER: John }{\b\fs22\ul Locke}{\fs22 
\par 
\par \page 7. During the last twenty years of his life, his fingers were crippled by arthritis, but he continued to paint, using a brush strapped to his arm.  Unlike his fellow impressionist landscape painters, however
, he was also interested in human portraits.  FTP, name this French impressionist painter, creator of such works as }{\i\fs22 Madame Charpentier and her Children}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Bathers}{\fs22 , and }{\i\fs22 The Luncheon of the Boating Party}{\fs22 .

\par ANSWER:  Pierre August }{\b\fs22\ul Renoir}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 8. Colchicine causes non
disjunction by inhibiting the formation of this structure, which is composed of actin microfilaments. Its formation is directed by the centrioles, and chromosomes can only attach to it at their centromeres.  FTP, name the structure that separates chromati
ds in mitosis and meiosis.
\par ANSWER: Mitotic }{\b\fs22\ul spindle }{\fs22 or }{\b\fs22\ul spindle fibers
\par }{\fs22 
\par 9. His wife Lurleen became the nation\rquote s 3}{\fs22\super rd}{\fs22  female governor in 1966.  Arthur Bremer paralyzed him in 1972 and put an end to his presidential aspirations. He served as Alabama\rquote s assistant 
state attorney and in its state legislature before rising to political prominence as governor in 1962.  FTP, name this late man who once proclaimed in 1963, \'93Segregation now, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever!\'94
\par ANSWER: George }{\b\fs22\ul Wallace
\par }{\fs22 
\par 10. The style
 of journalism created by this contemporary American writer may sound like a muppet, but it has nothing to do with Gonzo the Weirdo.  Through highly subjective and fantastical description, this heavy drinking man documented experiences from the election o
f 1972 to experiences with LSD.  FTP, name this man, played by Johnny Depp in the movie version of his book, }{\i\fs22 Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas}{\fs22 .
\par ANSWER: Hunter S. }{\b\fs22\ul Thompson}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 11. The symbolic expression for calculating this quantity is the name of the zip drive manufacturer Iomega, while the quantity itself is represented by a lowercase L.  Its conservation is the basis for Kepler\rquote 
s laws and for the techniques figure skaters use to spin faster.  FTP, name the product of moment of inertia and angular velocity.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul angular momentum}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 12. The biggest loss of yardage in Super Bowl history is still the 29-yard sack this man took from the Cowboys in Super Bowl XI.  Nonetheless, he 
would go on to win the next two Super Bowls.  Earl Morrall replaced him in October of 1972, but he would return for the AFC championship and Super Bowl to finish off Miami\rquote 
s perfect season.  FTP, name this Dolphins quarterback, whose son Brian now plays for the Denver Broncos.
\par ANSWER: Bob }{\b\fs22\ul Griese
\par }{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\qj \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cgrid0 
13. In 1571, he fought against the Turks in the Battle of Lepanto, in which he lost the use of his left hand.  En route back to Spain, he was captured by Barbary pirates.  His 1585 pastoral novel, }{\i\cgrid0 La Galatea}{\cgrid0 , earne
d him a reputation, but not a whole lot of money.  FTP, name this author, whose story idea about a man who believed himself a knight-errant that performed fantastical deeds produced }{\i\cgrid0 The Ingenious Hidalgo Don Quixote of La Mancha}{\cgrid0 .  }{
\i 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER:  Miguel de }{\b\fs22\ul Cervantes}{\fs22  Saavedra
\par 
\par \page 14. Legend has it that a monastery was first established on this site in the 700s by Saberht, the first Christian king of the East Saxons, but the earliest recorded version of this church was featured in the Bayeux tapestry and was bui
lt by Edward the Confessor.\~Its construction marked the English capital\rquote s shift from Winchester to London, confirmed when William the Conqueror was crowned there in 1066.\~ FTP, name this church, the site of all royal coronations since.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Westminster Abbey}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 15. The ones used for research can be either monoclonal or polyclonal.  In a given organism, all of them have the same Fc region, but different Fab regions.  Both regions include the heavy chains, but the light chains are only found in the Fab regio
ns, since they form part of the antigen binding site.  FTP, name these Y-shaped molecules of the immune system.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul antibodies}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 16. Robert Gutherman and Amy Wall regained their hearing apparently through the intercession of this nun.  In her 96 years, she had founded the Sisters of the Blessed Sacrament and spent $20 million of her family\rquote 
s wealth to educate Indian and African American children at the turn of the century.  FTP, name this woman, whose canonization later this year will make her the fourth U.S. saint.
\par ANSWER: Mother Katherine }{\b\fs22\ul Drexel}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 17. \'93Somewhere Along the Line.\'94 \'93Two Thousand Years.\'94 \'93I Don\rquote t Want To Be Alone Anymore.\'94  \'93Zanzibar.\'94 \'93Angry Young Man.\'94 \'93You May Be Right.\'94 \'93Scenes From an Italian Restaurant.\'94 \'93The Entertainer.\'94
 All these are song titles by, FTP, what artist best known for \'93Uptown Girl\'94 and \'93We Didn\rquote t Start the Fire?\'94
\par ANSWER: Billy }{\b\fs22\ul Joel}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 18. Founded by a young man after he slayed a dragon and created an army from its teeth, this ancient city began its long history as the setting of the tragic downfall of numerous 
\par heroes and royals. In addition to the death of Pentheus, a king who refused to believe in Dionysus, a rather unorthodox relationship between a mother and her son took place here. FTP, name this ancient Greek city, setting of }{\i\fs22 Oedipus Rex}{\fs22 .

\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Thebes}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 19. They said they came from the "White Land," and their commonly known name comes from the Nahuatl for these words. They actually called themselves the Culhua-Mexica (KUL-WA MESH-EE-KA), and were also known as the Ten
ochca (TEN-OTCH-KA), which would lend itself to the name of their capital city. FTP, name this Mesoamerican civilization that thrived in the 15th and 16th centuries with its capital at Tenochtitl\'e1n.
\par ANSWER: the }{\b\fs22\ul Aztecs}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 20. Erected between AD 118 and 128, it replaced a smaller temple built by Marcus Agrippa.  Its giant domed rotunda was made possible by slow-drying Roman concrete and it has an oculus in the center of the dome which provides the lighting for the entire bu
ilding.  FTP, name this building, built by the Emperor Hadrian and dedicated to \'93all the gods,\'94 but converted into a Christian church in the early 7}{\fs22\super th}{\fs22  century.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Pantheon}{\fs22 
\par 
\par \page 21. This novel was so successful that it spawned a sequel: }{\i\fs22 The Road Back}{\fs22 .}{\i\fs22  }{\fs22 Lew Ayres played Paul and Louis Wolheim played Katczinsky in the 1930 film version. Using the terse, routine language of communiqu\'e9
s to emphasize the dehumanizing nature of trench warfare, this novel aroused the ire of many German nationalists after its first publication in 1928.  FTP, identify this famous anti-war novel written by Erich Maria Remarque.
\par ANSWER: \-}{\b\i\fs22\ul All Quiet on the Western Front}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 22. Martin Seligman, one of the pioneers in the research of this condition in animals, found that exposure to inescapab
le aversive events retarded learning in subsequent situations in which escape or avoidance is possible.  FTP, name this psychological condition, possibly a cause of depression in some individuals.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul learned helplessness}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 23. The violent eruption of t
his volcano in the Northwestern United States blanketed an area that extended as far away as Saskatchewan, Canada. This 9,900-foot volcano was located in Southern Oregon and named Mazama, and erupted approximately 7,000 years ago.  A caldera 6 miles acros
s and a half-mile deep formed after the collapse of the mountain and was filled with rainwater. FTP, name this present-day geographical feature.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Crater Lake}{\fs22 
\par }{
\par }{\b \page }{\b\fs28 ROUND 3 BONI}{
\par }{\fs22 
\par 1. 30-20-10, name the artist.
\par [30] He came under the influence of }{\fs22\cf1\cgrid0 the great French painter Jean-Antoine Watteau by studying under French engraver Hubert Gravelot, one of Watteau\rquote s pupils. 
\par }{\fs22 [20]}{\fs22\cf1\cgrid0  From 1760 to 1774 this British artist lived in Bath, where he painted numerous portraits and landscapes.  In 1768, he was elected as one of the original members of the Royal Academy of Arts.}{\fs22 
\par [10]}{\fs22\cf1\cgrid0  Some of his most famous works include }{\i\fs22\cf1\cgrid0 Mrs. Siddons}{\fs22\cf1\cgrid0 , }{\i\fs22\cf1\cgrid0 Mr. and Mrs. Andrews}{\fs22\cf1\cgrid0 , and }{\i\fs22\cf1\cgrid0 The Blue Boy}{\fs22\cf1\cgrid0 .}{\fs22 
\par ANSWER:  Thomas }{\b\fs22\ul Gainsborough}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 2. Answer the following questions about a celebration FTSNOP.
\par a. [5] Its observance runs from December 26 to January 1 and its name translates into \'93First Fruits\'94 in Swahili.  Name this celebration.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Kwanzaa}{\fs22 
\par b. [10] Name the man, a professor at California State University Long Beach who created Kwanzaa in 1966.
\par ANSWER: Maulana }{\b\fs22\ul Karenga}{\fs22 
\par c. [15] For 5 points each, name three of the seven principles of Kwanzaa in either Swahili or English.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul unity}{\fs22  (umoja), }{\b\fs22\ul self-determination}{\fs22  (kujichagulia), }{\b\fs22\ul collective responsibility}{\fs22  (ujima), }{\b\fs22\ul cooperative economics}{\fs22  (ujamaa), }{\b\fs22\ul purpose}{\fs22  (nia), }{\b\fs22 
creativity}{\fs22  (kuumba), }{\b\fs22\ul faith}{\fs22  (imani).  (Be lenient in the pronunciation of the Swahili).
\par 
\par 3. Eight elements exist naturally as diatomic molecules.  For five points each, with a five-point bonus for all correct, name any five of them.
\par }{\fs22\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 hydrogen}{\fs22\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 , }{\b\fs22\ul\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 oxygen}{\fs22\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 , }{
\b\fs22\ul\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 nitrogen}{\fs22\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 , }{\b\fs22\ul\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 flourine}{\fs22\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 , }{\b\fs22\ul\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 chlorine}{
\fs22\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 , }{\b\fs22\ul\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 bromine}{\fs22\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 , }{\b\fs22\ul\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 iodine}{\fs22\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 , }{
\b\fs22\ul\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 astatine}{\fs22\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 
\par 
\par }{\fs22 4. This was going to be a bonus on Jane Austen, but Victor found out my intentions and hit me over the head with a hammer to make me write on somethings else. Identify the playwright from works, 30-20-10.
\par [30] }{\i\fs22 A Loss of Roses}{\fs22 ,}{\i\fs22  Where\rquote s Daddy? }{\fs22 
\par [20]}{\i\fs22  Come Back, Little Sheba}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Bus Stop}{\fs22 
\par [10] }{\i\fs22 Picnic}{\fs22 
\par ANSWER: William }{\b\fs22\ul Inge
\par }{\fs22 
\par 5. Before the pipe bomb at the Atlanta Olympics, there had been terrorism at the Olympics once before.\~ Eight Palestinian terrorists inva
ded the Olympic village and killed two Israeli team members and held nine others hostage.  Answer these questions, FTPE.
\par a. In what city and year were these Olympics held, FTPE?
\par ANSWERS: }{\b\fs22\ul Munich}{\fs22  and }{\b\fs22\ul 1972
\par }{\fs22 b. Amid terrorism and accusations of corrupt officiating, one bright spot was the winning of seven gold medals by one athlete, the most in any single Games at that time.\~ Who was it?
\par ANSWER: Mark }{\b\fs22\ul Spitz}{\fs22 
\par 
\par \page 6. Yale team member Ramey Ko is unhealthily obsessed with one thing, food. And nowhere else provides him a better fix for his addiction than the Food Network. Name these celebrity chefs from the network FTPE.
\par a. Flamboyant and a GQ Man of the Year, his Acadian background leads him to cook spicy foods and utter trademark phrases such as \'93Bam!\'94, \'93Kick it up a notch!\'94, and \'93Pork fat rules!\'94
 Name this chef with a live hour-long show every night on the Food Network.
\par ANSWER: Emeril }{\b\fs22\ul Lagasse}{\fs22 
\par b. This graduate of Yale in mechanical engineering married the Yale squash coach\rquote s younger sister, started a restaurant called Blue Ginger, shows us how East meets West in food by combining Asian and Western cooking, and is Esquire\rquote 
s Chef of the Year.
\par ANSWER: Ming }{\b\fs22\ul Tsai}{\fs22 
\par c. For him, life is just a matter of taste, and he tells you so on his show and in his cookbooks. He has achieved status as a celebrity chef despite having never worked professionally as one, and co-hosts \'93In Food Today\'94 with Donna Hanover.
\par ANSWER: David }{\b\fs22\ul Rosengarten}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }{\fs22\cf1 7. Identify these operas, FTPE.
\par a. Taking place in a prison near Seville in the 18}{\fs22\cf1\super th}{\fs22\cf1  century, imprison
ed freedom fighter Florestan plots against his enemy Don Pizarro.  Leonora hopes to save him by disguising as a young man and becoming an assistant to the chief jailer, Rocco.  FTP, name this Beethoven opera.
\par ANSWER:  }{\b\i\fs22\ul\cf1 Fidelio}{\fs22\cf1 
\par b. Composed by Puccini, this o
pera begins at the walls of Peking, where a mandarin says that the Princess, the title character, is to marry the first man of royal blood who successfully answers three riddles. If he fails, he will be impaled.  Prince Calaf is the one who successfully a
nswers the riddles.
\par }{\fs22 ANSWER:  }{\b\i\fs22\ul Turandot}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
c. The cynical Don Alfonso challenges two young men, Ferrando and Guglielmo, to test the faithfulness of their betrothed by disguising themselves and woo each other\rquote s beloved.  The women eventually yield to the charms o
f their new lovers, but all is forgiven when the prank is revealed.  Name this opera by Mozart.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22\cf1\lang1040\langfe1033\langnp1040 ANSWER:  }{\b\i\fs22\ul\cf1\lang1040\langfe1033\langnp1040 
Cosi Fan Tutte}{\fs22\cf1\lang1040\langfe1033\langnp1040 
\par }{\fs22\lang1040\langfe1033\langnp1040 
\par }{\fs22 8. Answer these questions about those people who would just \'93rather not get involved,\'94 the Swiss, FTPE.
\par a. Switzerland is a federal republic of 26 of these administrative units. Give their common name.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Cantons}{\fs22 
\par b. Switzerland has three major language regions, including German, French, and Italian, but also a fourth minor linguistic group that is a surviving old Latin-based language that has been protected by the state to prevent it from disappearing. Name it.

\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Romansh}{\fs22 
\par c. What major group of the population was not granted the right to vote in federal elections until 1971?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul women}{\fs22  or equivalent
\par 
\par \page 9. Answer these questions about schools of philosophy, FTPE.
\par a. As distinguished from the rationalists, adherents of this school believed in experience as the basis of human knowledge and understanding.  It is commonly known to include John Locke, George Berkeley, and David Hume.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Empiricism}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Empiricists
\par }{\fs22 b. Born from the attempt to resolve rediscovered Aristotelian materialism with Christian theology, this school dominated Europe for many years, and its most significant thinker was Thomas Aquinas.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Scholasticism }{\fs22 or }{\b\fs22\ul Scholastics}{\fs22 
\par c. This ancient school of philosophy lent its name to our common vocabulary, and repudiated the ability of human thought to decisively resolve any major controversy. Its legendary founder was Pyrrho, who supposed
ly needed guides to prevent him from walking into holes he didn\rquote t believe were there.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Skepticism}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Skeptics}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 10. China has let another major figure slip through its grasp again. Answer these questions about the latest PRC embarrassment, FTPE.
\par a. In early January, this 14 year old Buddhist leader of Tibet escaped Chinese ruled Tibet after an eight day trek through the Himalayas. Give his title.
\par ANSWER: the 17}{\fs22\super th}{\fs22  }{\b\fs22\ul Karmapa}{\fs22 
\par b. The Karmapa\rquote s escape is considered the most significant exodus from Tibet following the failed 1959 uprising of what other major religious leader?
\par ANSWER: the 14}{\fs22\super th}{\fs22  }{\b\fs22\ul Dalai }{\fs22 Lama Tenzin Gyatso
\par c. Both the Dalai Lama and the Karmapa first escaped to this country, where the Karmapa is thought to remain at present.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul India}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 11. It's the game where high and low culture collide--and result in a horrific train wreck.\~ Conjoin these Shakespearean plays with low-budget, kitschy, or just plain bad movies given a description of each, FTPE.\~ (For example, if I said\~
 "The Shakespeare play featuring Rosalind, Celia, Orlando, the forest of Arden, some cross-dressing, and a lion WITH a supposed "comedy" about an androgynous and obnoxious character played by Julia Sweeney," the answer would be "As You Like It's Pat")

\par a. The Shakespeare play where siblings Viola and Sebastian are shipwrecked, think each other dead, and Viola has to cross-dress and impersonate Sebastian, yet falls in love with Count Orsino WITH a classic B-movie horror flick about brain-hungry zombies.

\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Twelfth Night of the Living Dead}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 b. The play which centers around Prince Hal becoming king and conquering Fran
ce, culminating in his victory at the battle of Agincourt WITH this 1997 oh-so-Euro sci-fi/action movie featuring Bruce Willis as a futuristic cab driver who saves the world with the help of Milla Jovovich and her band-aid dress.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Henry the Fifth Element}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 
c. The play in which the King of Navarre and his three buddies swear off love, only to be tempted by the French princess and her ladies-in-waiting who show up soon after WITH an old sci-fi TV show's recent movie remake whose plot should have screamed
 "Danger, Will Robinson!" from the very beginning.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Love\rquote s Labour\rquote s Lost in Space}{\b\fs22\ul 
\par 
\par }{\fs22 \page 12. Answer the following about excretion FTPE.
\par a. Insects use these excretory organs.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul malphigian tubules}{\fs22 
\par b. Earthworm excretory organs are called these.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul nephridia}{\fs22  (do not accept \'93nephrons\'94)
\par c. Planarians use these strangely-named cells for excretion.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul flame cells
\par }{\fs22 
\par 13. For the stated number of points, answer the following about World Series records.
\par a. [5] This Yankee showed why he was called Mr. October when he hit 3 home runs in one World Series game.
\par ANSWER: Reggie }{\b\fs22\ul Jackson}{\fs22 
\par b. [10] In 1995, this Brave surpassed Mickey Mantle as the youngest player to hit a World Series home run.
\par ANSWER: Andrew }{\b\fs22\ul Jones}{\fs22  (do not accept Chipper Jones)
\par c. [15] The only time a World Series has been won with a 9th inning, Game 7 home run was in 1960, when this Pirate homered to beat the Yankees.
\par ANSWER: Bill }{\b\fs22\ul Mazeroski
\par 
\par }{\fs22 14. FTPE, identify these bombing sites of WWII.
\par a. This German city was known as "Florence on the Elbe" before a bombing fleet of Anglo-American forces got done with it.\~ The massive raid of Feb. 1945 killed thousands of people and destroyed the city, but achieved little militarily.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Dresden}{\fs22 
\par b. The May 1940 bombing by the Luftwaffe tried to stop a massive British evacuation from this northern French harbor town.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Dunkirk}{\fs22 
\par c. The period of German bombing of London from late 1940 to May 1941 is commonly known as what?
\par ANSWER: the }{\b\fs22\ul Blitz
\par }{\fs22 
\par 15. Alex is from North Carolina, and she's decided that there aren't nearly enough questions on the College Bowl circuit celebrating her fine home state.\~
 So, prepare yourself for a dose of North Carolina literature. (And YES, NC is literate, smartypants...)\~ Answer these questions, FTPE.
\par a. This author was born in 1900 in Asheville and became famous for autobiographical novels like }{\i\fs22 Look Homeward, Angel}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 You Can't Go Home Again}{\fs22 
\par ANSWER: Thomas }{\b\fs22\ul Wolfe}{\fs22 
\par b. This short-story writer was born in Greensboro, and his works are marked by their trademark surprise endings and often ironic humor.\~His most famous stories are "The Ransom of Red Chief" and "The Gift of the Magi."
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul O. Henry}{\fs22  or William Sydney }{\b\fs22\ul Porter}{\fs22 
\par c. Born and raised in western North Carolina, this author received critical praise, a National Book Award, and bestseller status in 1997 with his Civil War historical fiction novel, }{\i\fs22 Cold Mountain}{\fs22 .
\par ANSWER: Charles }{\b\fs22\ul Frazier}{\fs22 
\par 
\par \page 16. Identify these movies starring Jimmy Stewart for the stated number of points.
\par a. [5] This holiday classic, whose plot has been ripped off ad nauseum, shows Stewart what the world would be like if he had never been born.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul It\rquote s a Wonderful Life}{\fs22 
\par b. [10] This Alfred Hitchcock movie stars Stewart as a photographer stuck in a wheelchair, who keeps himself occupied by staring out the window at his neighbors.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Rear Window
\par }{\fs22 c. [15] Frank Capra directed this film starring Stewart as an idealistic small-town politician who becomes a Senator.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Mr. Smith Goes to Washington
\par }{\fs22 
\par 17. Answer these questions about the Acropolis building program, FTPE.
\par a. This statesman oversaw the building of the Acropolis after his rule made Athens not only the military power, but also the political and cultural focus of Greece.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Pericles}{\fs22 
\par b. To build the Acropolis, Pericles used money from the treasury of this confederacy, which all the states of Greece had contributed to for protection from outside forces
\par ANSWER: the }{\b\fs22\ul Delian League}{\fs22 
\par c. The Delian League was set up to protect the Greek states against what foreign empire?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Persian}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Persia}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 18. Identify these physical laws FTPE.
\par a. The direction of an induced current will oppose the force that induced the current; it puts the negative sign in Faraday\rquote s Law.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Lenz\rquote s Law
\par }{\fs22 b. The ratio of the sines of the angles of incidence and refraction equals the index of refraction in the medium.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Snell\rquote s Law
\par }{\fs22 c. The total entropy of the universe is always increasing.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Second Law of Thermodynamics}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 19. Identify these British theorists of classical economics from a description, F15PE.
\par a. This man\rquote s 1798 work, }{\i\fs22 An Essay on the Principle of Population}{\fs22 , asserted his belief that economic prosperity was limited by population pressure.  Therefore, he advocat
ed voluntary population controls by later marriages and smaller families. 
\par ANSWER:  Thomas Robert }{\b\fs22\ul Malthus}{\fs22 
\par }{\fs22\cf1\cgrid0 b. His labor theory of value concluded that labor determines value and he set forth the theory of diminishing returns.  His major work, published in 1817, is }{\i\fs22\cf1\cgrid0 Principles of Political Economy and Taxation}{
\fs22\cf1\cgrid0 .}{\fs22 
\par ANSWER:  David }{\b\fs22\ul Ricardo}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 20. Name the French author from works, 30-20-10.
\par a. [30] }{\i\fs22 Caligula}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 The Myth of Sisyphus}{\fs22 
\par b. [20] }{\i\fs22 The Plague}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 The Fall}{\fs22 
\par c. [10] }{\i\fs22 The Stranger
\par }{\fs22 ANSWER: Albert }{\b\fs22\ul Camus}{\fs22 
\par 
\par \page 21. Fifteen points each, give the oxidation state of the stated atom in the following groups.  You do not need the sign, just the number.
\par }{\fs22\lang1040\langfe1033\langnp1040 a. Nitrogen in nitrogen pentoxide, N2O5
\par }{\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul five}{\fs22 
\par b. Chromium in dichromate ion, Cr2O7, with a charge of negative 2.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul six}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 22. Answer these questions about the history of South Africa, FTPE.
\par a. In opposition to British rule, these settlers started leaving the Cape Colony in a migration called The Great Trek.\~ About 12,000 people left between 1835 and 1843.
\par ANSWER: the }{\b\fs22\ul Boers}{\fs22 
\par b. The Boers' Great Trek proceeded unmolested through the inland plateau thanks to the decimation of the native clans of the area by this Zulu leader.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Shaka}{\fs22 
\par c. The Boers settled in the empty spaces of the high veldt and southern Natal, creating two states that the British government recognized as independent.\~Name either one.
\par }\pard\plain \s2\qj \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 ANSWER: the }{\b\fs22\ul Transvaal}{\fs22  or the }{\b\fs22\ul Orange Free State

\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }{\fs22 23. Identify the architects of the following museums FTPE.
\par a. 5 points for one, 10 points for both, name the architects who designed the Pompidou Center
\par ANSWER: Renzo }{\b\fs22\ul Piano}{\fs22  and Richard }{\b\fs22\ul Rogers
\par }{\fs22\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 b. Guggenhei}{\fs22\cf6\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031  }{\fs22\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 m Museum, Bilbao, Spain.\tab \tab \tab 
\par }{\fs22 ANSWER: Frank }{\b\fs22\ul Gehry}{\fs22 
\par c. Getty Museum, Los Angeles.\tab 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri187\sa140\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin187\lin0\itap0 {\fs22 ANSWER: Richard }{\b\fs22\ul Meier}{\fs22 
\par }}