{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f224\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f225\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f227\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f228\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f229\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f236\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f237\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f239\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f240\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f241\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title 1996 Maryland Classic}{\author Jason Hong}
{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min52}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min52}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords2085}{\nofchars11890}{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws14601}{\vern71}}
\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale110\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0 1996 Maryland Classic
\par Questions mostly by Arthur Fleming
\par 
\par 1.  In this battle, the Confederates took the Peach Orchard but were repulsed in assaults on Cemetery Hill and Cemetery Ridge.  On the last day of the battle, Lee ordered George 
Pickett's division forward in its famous charge, but it was repelled by the forces of George G. Meade.  FTP, name this battle which took place on July 1-3, 1863 in Pennsylvania.
\par \tab Answer:  _Gettysburg_
\par 
\par 2.  His chief rival was Edward Alleyn.  The builder 
of the Shoreditch and Blackfriar theaters, he acted in the premieres of plays by Kyd, Webster, Beaumont and Fletcher, and Jonson.  FTP, who is this man, who originated the title roles in _Richard III_ and _Hamlet_?
\par \tab Answer:  Richard _Burbage_
\par 
\par 3.  For a 
magnetic dipole, it is given by the cross product of the dipole moment and the magnetic field.  For a current loop, it is given by the current times the cross product of the area and the magnetic field produced by the loop.  For an ordinary particle, is i
s defined as the cross product of the force and a radius vector.  FTP, what is this quantity, the rotational analog of force?
\par \tab Answer:  _torque_
\par 
\par 4.  The son of Iapetus and Clymene, his name means "forethought".  The brother-in-law of Pandora, as punishme
nt for his most famous deed he was chained to a rock in the Caucasus where a vulture or an eagle tore out his liver.  FTP, name this Titan, who gave to man the gift of fire.
\par \tab Answer:  _Prometheus_
\par 
\par 5.  Initially, they used threats, intimidation, and viol
ence to prevent the New Hampshire Grants from becoming part of New York.  In the American Revolution, they won an important victory at Bennington and captured Fort Ticonderoga.  FTP, name this group that was led by Ethan Allen.
\par \tab Answer:  _Green Mountain Boys_
\par 
\par 6.  This novel contains two of its author's most famous minor characters, Mr. Collins and Lady Catherine de Bourgh.  In the novel, Darcy interfers with his friend Bingley's courtship of Jane, whose sister Jane Darcy himself wishes to court.  FTP, na
me this work about the Bennet family, written by Jane Austen.
\par \tab Answer:  _Pride and Prejudice_
\par 
\par 7.  When Hank Aaron hit his 715th home run on April 8, 1974, he broke Babe Ruth's home run record and this man's record for runs scored in the NL.  He was on d
eck when Bobby Thomson hit his famous home run in 1951, which was also his Rookie of the Year season.  FTP, name this man, who made 24 All-Star appearances and hit 660 home runs while playing for the New York and San Francisco Giants.
\par \tab Answer:  Willie _Mays_
\par 
\par 8.  Born in Staunton, Virginia, he was governor of New Jersey and president of Princeton before being elected U.S. president.  His domestic program, known as the "New Freedom", saw the creation of the Federal Reserve System and the passage of the Cla
yton Antitrust Act.  FTP, name this man, who became president when the Republicans split their vote between Theodore Roosevelt and William Howard Taft in 1912.
\par \tab Answer:  Thomas Woodrow _Wilson_
\par 
\par 9.  This organ's two lobes are separated by the falciform ligament.  It produces the plasma proteins prothombrin, fibrinogen, and albumin, converts poisons into less harmful compounds, and manufactures the anticoagulant heparin.  FTP, what is this bile-
producing organ?
\par \tab Answer:  _Liver_
\par 
\par 10.  Under the patronage
 of Madame von Meck, a wealthy widow whom he never met, he composed the operas _Eugene Onegin_ and _The Queen of Spades_ and the concert favorties _Capriccio Italien_ and _Marche Slave_.  FTP, name this Russian composer best known for the ballets _The Sle
eping Beauty_ and _Swan Lake_.
\par \tab Answer:  Peter Ilyich _Tchaikowsky_
\par 
\par 11.  An army officer, he rose to prominence when Ramon Castillo was overthrown in 1943.  He was elected president in 1946 by a huge majority, but after the death of his wife in 1952, his
 popularity weakened, and he was overthrown by a military coup in 1955.  FTP, name this two-time president of Argentina.
\par \tab Answer:  Juan _Peron_
\par 
\par 12.  For a magnetic dipole, it is given by the cross product of the dipole moment and the magnetic field.  Fo
r a current loop, it is given by the current times the cross product of the area and the magnetic field produced by the loop.  For an ordinary particle, is is defined as the cross product of the force and a radius vector.  FTP, what is this quantity, the 
rotational analog of force?
\par \tab Answer:  _torque_
\par 
\par 13.  Living around 875 B.C., he was a prophet during the reign of King Ahab.  In the Bible, he raised a widow's son from the dead, was fed by ravens, heard a voice on Mt. Horeb, and left Earth in a chariot o
f fire.  FTP, name this Old Testament prophet, whose work was continued by his disciple Elisha.
\par \tab Answer:  _Elijah_
\par 
\par 14.  In 1901 he married the actress Olga Knipper, the interpreter of many of his characters, but he died of tuberculosis three years later
.  His 1888 short story "The Steppe" won the Pushkin Prize, but he is better known for plays.  FTP, name this author of _Ivanov_, _The Seagull_, and _The Cherry Orchard_.
\par \tab Answer:  Anton Pavlovich _Chekhov_
\par 
\par 15.  He wrote theological works such as _The Q
uest of the Historical Jesus_, edited the works of J.S. Bach, and wrote a work of ethical philosophy, _Philosophy of Civilization_.  A native of Alsatia, in 1913 he established a hospital at Lambarene, Gabon, where he lived most of his life.  FTP, name th
is Nobel Peace Prize-winner and medical missionary.
\par \tab Answer:  Albert _Schweitzer_
\par 
\par 16.  In 1993, she became president of the American Red Cross, two years after Lynn Martin took her old job.  FTP, who is this Secretary of Transportation under Reagan and Secretary of Labor under Bush, who may be the next First Lady?
\par \tab Answer:  Elizabeth _Dole_
\par 
\par 17.  He determined the specific heats for numerous substances and, simultaneously with James Watt, discovered that water resulted from the union of two gases.  He a
lso used a torsion balance to determine the value of the universal gravitational constant and isolated a gas he called "inflammable air".  FTP, name this discoverer of hydrogen and namesake of a laboratory at Cambridge.
\par \tab Answer:  Henry _Cavendish_
\par 
\par 18.  
This man is known for the novels _The Cabala_ and _Theophilus North_, and his play _The Matchmaker_ was the basis for the musical _Hello, Dolly!_.  FTP, name this American author, better known for the novel _The Bridge of San Luis Rey_ and the plays _The 
Skin of Our Teeth_ and _Our Town_.
\par \tab Answer:  Thornton _Wilder_
\par 
\par 19.  In 1443 he migrated to Padua where he produced an equestrian portrait of the military commander known as Gattemelata.  He also produced statues of Mary Magdalene, St. Mark, and St. Georg
e.  FTP, name this sculptor who created the first freestanding nude since antiquity with his 1430 statue of David.
\par \tab Answer:  _Donatello_ or Donato di Niccolo
\par 
\par 20.  Beginning in 1519 with five ships, he explored the Rio de la Plata, sailed through the str
aits which bear his name, and headed northwest across the Pacific.  He finally reached the Marianas and the Philippines, where he was killed by natives.  FTP, name this leader of the first expedition to circumnavigate the world.
\par \tab Answer:  Ferdinand _Magellan_
\par 
\par 21.  His _The Critique of Dialectical Reason_ combined Marxism and existentialism while his _The Family Idiot_ was a Freudian study of Flaubert.  In 1964, he declined the Nobel Prize in Literature.  FTP, name this French existentialist, author of _B
eing and Nothingness_ and _No Exit_.
\par \tab Answer:  Jean-Paul _Sartre_
\par 
\par \page 
\par 1996 Maryland Classic
\par Questions mostly by Arthur Fleming
\par 
\par 1.  FTP each, identify the following characters from Charles Dickens' _A Tale of Two Cities_.
\par 1.  Unjustly imprisoned in the Bastille, after his release he returns to London with his daughter Lucie.
\par \tab Answer:  Dr. Alexander _Manette_
\par 2.  A dissolute young man, he dies on the guillotine in place of Charles Darnay, whom he resembles.
\par \tab Answer:  Sydney _Carton_
\par 3.  Her sister is attacked by the marquis de St. Evremonde, and in her revenge she has Darnay sentenced to the guillotine because he is related to the marquis.
\par \tab Answer:  Madame _Defarge_
\par 
\par 2.  For the stated number of points, given a year and a party, name the presidential candidate.
\par 1.  5 pts:  1960, Republican
\par \tab Answer:  Richard _Nixon_
\par 2.  10 pts:  1896, Republican
\par \tab Answer:  William Jennings _Bryan_
\par 3.  15 pts:  1860, Southern Democratic
\par \tab Answer:  John Cabell _Breckenridge_
\par 
\par 3.  FTP each, identify the physical quantity which is equal to the
\par expression given.
\par 1.  Force divided by mass
\par \tab Answer:  _acceleration_
\par 2.  Work divided by time
\par \tab Answer:  _power_
\par 3.  For a spring, the square root of the spring constant divided by mass
\par \tab Answer:  angular _frequency_
\par 
\par 4.  For the stated number of points, given the highest point in a state, name the state.
\par 1.  5 pts:  Mount Whitney
\par \tab Answer:  _California_
\par 2.  5 pts:  Mt. McKinley
\par \tab Answer:  _Alaska_
\par 3.  10 pts:  Mt. Washington
\par \tab Answer:  _New Hampshire_
\par 4.  10 pts:  Borah Peak
\par \tab Answer:  _Idaho_
\par 
\par 5.  Name the following kings from Greek mythology FTP each.
\par 1.  This king of Sparta was the brother of Agamemnon.  The abduction of his wife by Paris led to the Trojan War.
\par \tab Answer:  _Menelaus_
\par 2.  Dionysus gave this king of Phrygia the "golden touch".
\par \tab Answer:  _Midas_
\par 3.  This king of Ithaca is known for his encounters with the Lotus-Eaters and the giant Polyphemus, among others.
\par \tab Answer:  _Odysseus_
\par 
\par 6.  Given a work of 18th-century English literature, name the
\par author, 10 points each.
\par 1.  _Tristram Shandy_
\par \tab Answer:  Laurence _Sterne_
\par 2.  _Gulliver's Travels_
\par \tab Answer:  Jonathan _Swift_
\par 3.  _Moll Flanders_
\par \tab Answer:  Daniel _Defoe_
\par 
\par 7.  30-20-10, name the American.
\par 1.  As a senator from Mississippi in 1861, he announced that state's secession from the Union.
\par 2.  He married the daughter of Zachary Taylor.  He was imprisoned for two years after the Civil War but was released without prosecution with the help of Horace Greeley.
\par 3.  He was the president of the Confederate States of America.
\par \tab Answer:  Jefferson _Davis_
\par 
\par 8.  Identify these parts of a flower FTP each.
\par 1.  These leaflike structures enclose and protect all other floral parts during the bud stage.  Together they form the calyx.
\par \tab Answer:  _Sepals_
\par 2.  A part of the stamen, this ovoid pollen-producing structure lies on the end of the filament.
\par \tab Answer:  _Anther_
\par 3.  Derived from one of more sporophylls, these are the female reproductive organs of the flower and are composed of the stigma, styles, and ovary.
\par \tab Answer:  _Pistil_
\par 
\par 9.  Given a few characters from one of the six top-rated shows of the 1974-1975 television season, name the show for five points each, 30 for all 5.
\par 1.  Tom Willis and Ralph the Doorman
\par \tab Answer:  The _Jeffersons_
\par 2.  Sgt. Luther Rizzo and Capt. John McIntyre
\par \tab Answer:  _M*A*S*H_
\par 3.  Grady Wilson and Esther Anderson
\par \tab Answer:  _Sanford and Son_
\par 4.  Mike and Gloria Stivic
\par \tab Answer:  _All in the Family_
\par 5.  Chico Rodriguez and Ed Brown
\par \tab Answer:  _Chico and the Man_
\par 
\par 10.  Given a poem, identify the American poet who wrote it FTP each.
\par 1.  "Song of Myself"
\par \tab Answer:  Walt _Whitman_
\par 2.  "Howl"
\par \tab Answer:  Allen _Ginsberg_
\par 3.  "Miniver Cheevy"
\par \tab Answer:  Edwin Arlington _Robinson_
\par 
\par 11.  Answer the following questions concerning the prophet Daniel FTP each.
\par 1.  Daniel interprets two dreams of what king of Babylon?
\par \tab Answer:  _Nebuchadnezzar_
\par 2.  Daniel also interprets the handwriting on the wall at the feast of what other king, the son of Nebuchadnezzar?
\par \tab Answer:  _Belshazzar_
\par 3.  In a book of the Apocrypha, Daniel saves a woman from the false accusations of two elders.  Name the woman.
\par \tab Answer:  _Susanna_
\par 
\par 12.  FTP each, name the current mayors of the following cities.
\par 1.  Los Angeles
\par \tab Answer:  Richard _Riordan_
\par 2.  Cleveland (Ohio)
\par \tab Answer:  Michael _White_
\par 3.  New York
\par \tab Answer:  Rudy _Giuliani_
\par 
\par 13.  FTP each, given a sculpture, name the sculptor.
\par 1.  _The Burghers of Calais_
\par \tab Answer:  Auguste _Rodin_
\par 2.  Rondanini _Pieta_
\par \tab Answer:  _Michelangelo_ Buonarroti
\par 3.  various _Birds in Space_
\par \tab Answer:  Constantin _Brancusi_
\par 
\par 14.  Name the following Nathaniel Hawthorne short stories for 15 points each.
\par 1.  A doctor feeds his daughter Beatrice poison so she can help him in his experiments with dangerous plants.  Beatrice drinks an antidote and dies.
\par \tab Answer:  _Rappacini's Daughter_
\par 2.  A man leaves his wife and goes into the woods, where he watches a witches' Sabbath and discovers his own wife there.
\par \tab Answer:  _Young Goodman Brown_
\par 
\par 15.  Given the years and the concluding treaty, name the European war FTP each.
\par 1.  1740-1748, Aix-la-Chapelle
\par \tab Answer:  War of the _Austrian Succession_
\par 2.  1337-1453, no treaty
\par \tab Answer:  _Hundred Years'_ War
\par 3.  1618-1648, Peace of Westphalia
\par \tab Answer:  _Thirty Years'_ War
\par 
\par 16.  FTP each, evaluate the given trigonometric expression.  All angles are in degrees.
\par 1.  cos 60
\par \tab Answer:  _1/2_
\par 2.  tan 135
\par \tab Answer:  _-1_
\par 3.  2 * (sin 45) * (cos 45)
\par \tab Answer:  _1_
\par 
\par 17.  Identify these African bodies of water, 10 points each.
\par 1.  This lake is on the border of Niger, Nigeria, Cameroon, and the
\par country which shares its name.
\par \tab Answer:  Lake _Chad_
\par 2.  This river flows over Victoria Falls on the border between
\par Zambia and Zimbabwe.
\par \tab Answer:  _Zambezi_ River
\par 3.  Considered the second-deepest lake in the world, it is shared
\par by Tanzania, Burundi, Zaire, and Zambia.
\par \tab Answer:  Lake _Tanganyika_
\par 
\par 18.  Given two operas, name the composer FTP each.
\par 1.  _Aida_ and _Rigoletto_
\par \tab Answer:  Giuseppe _Verdi_
\par 2.  _The Flying Dutchman_ and _Die Walkure_
\par \tab Answer:  Richard _Wagner_
\par 3.  _Cosi fan tutte_ and _Don Giovanni_
\par \tab Answer:  Wolfgang Amadeus _Mozart_
\par 
\par 19.  Given a king or queen of England, name any year in which he or she reigned FTP each.
\par 1.  Henry VIII
\par \tab Answer:  anything between 1509 and 1547
\par 2.  Elizabeth I
\par \tab Answer:  anything between 1558 and 1603
\par 3.  George II
\par \tab Answer:  anything between 1727 and 1760
\par 
\par 20.  Identify these "R" terms from chemistry for ten points each.
\par 1.  In this type of REACTION, electrons are gained and the oxidation state of some atom decreases.
\par \tab Answer:  _Reduction_
\par 2.  This nobel gas has atomic number 86.
\par \tab Answer:  _Radon_
\par 3.  This law states that the vapor pressure of a solution component is equal to the product of the vapor pressure of the pure liquid and its mole fraction in solution.
\par \tab Answer:  _Raoult_'s law
\par }}