{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f224\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f225\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f227\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f228\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f229\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f236\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f237\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f239\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f240\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f241\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title 1996 Maryland Classic}{\author Jason Hong}
{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min52}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min52}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords2403}{\nofchars13701}{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws16825}{\vern71}}
\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale110\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0 1996 Maryland Classic
\par }\pard \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 
\par }\pard \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 1.  In chemistry, it's the term for a compound which results from the rep
lacement of one or more hydrogen atoms of an acid by metal atoms.  Usually crystalline at room temperature, they form positive and negative ions when dissolved.  FTP, name this type of compound exemplified by halite, or Sodium Chloride.
\par \tab Answer:  A _Salt_
\par 
\par 2.  A noted marine biologist, he was the son of Taisho, and his reign was marked by wars against China in the 1930s.  In 1945, he renounced his divine status and agreed to a new constitution making him a constitutional monarch.  FTP, name this Emperor o
f Japan during World War II.
\par \tab Answer:  _Hirohito_
\par 
\par 3.  Standing 27 inches high, it is located in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.  Originally conceived as a representation of Dante, this figure was designed as part of an ambitious ensemble of 
bronze statues called the Gates of Hell.  FTP, what is this meditative figure by Auguste Rodin?
\par \tab Answer:  The _Thinker_
\par 
\par 4.  He was converted to Christianity while visiting Norway, and intended to return to Greenland to convert the cononists.  Instead, he went off course and landed in a place he called Vinland.  FTP, name this lucky Norse explorer, the son of Eric the Red.

\par \tab Answer:  _Leif Ericson_
\par 
\par 5.  He calls Merlin a \'f1maundering old ass.\'ee  He transfers five hundred knights from horseback to bicycles,
 and surrounds a castle with an electric fence.  He is the superintendent of a Hartford arms factory who was hit on the head and transported back in time.  FTP, name this character named Hank Morgan created by Mark Twain.
\par \tab Answer:  A _Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court_ (prompt on Hank Morgan or \'f1the Boss\'ee if given early)
\par 
\par 6.  Born on the same day as Abraham Lincoln, he was the grandson of the famous porcelain-maker Josiah Wedgwood.  While in the Galapagos islands, he theorized that the many variet
ies of finches were descended from a common ancestor.  FTP, name this man who took a cruise on the HMS Beagle before publishing his _Origin of Species_.
\par \tab Answer:  Charles _Darwin_
\par 
\par 7.  Also called Aotearoa by its natives, its smaller territories include 
Stewart Island, the Ross Dependency, and the Cook Islands.  Separated from the nearest continent by the Tasman Sea, its two main islands are divided by the Cook Strait.  FTP, name this nation, the home of the Maori, whose cities include Aukland, Christ Ch
urch, and Wellington.
\par \tab Answer:  _New Zealand_
\par 
\par 8.  The Union was under the command of Irvin McDowell.  The Confederate army was led by General Beauregard.  The confederates retreated to Henry House Hill, where Stonewall Jackson held back Union troops unti
l reinforcements under Johnston arrived.  FTP, name this action fought on July 21, 1861, also called the battle of Manassas.
\par \tab Answer:  The _First_ Battle of _Bull Run_ (accept "First Manassas" on early buzz.  Also, prompt for a number on "Bull Run " or "Manassas")
\par 
\par 9.  One of the daughters of Phorcys and Ceto, she was impregnated by Poseidon in the Temple of Athena, which caused Athena to authorize her death and place her head on Zeus' aegis.  Her sisters were Stheno and Euryale, and from her decapitated c
orpse sprang Pegasus.  FTP, name this Gorgon killed by Perseus.
\par \tab Answer:  _Medusa_
\par 
\par 10.  In differential form, it comprises two of Maxwell's field equations.  It states that the surface integral of the normal compnent of magnetic flux over any closed sur
face in a dialectric is equal to zero.  FTP, name this rule formulated by a German mathematician.
\par \tab Answer:  _Gauss's_ Law
\par 
\par 11.  The product of 250 years of one Macedonian family's inbreeding, she and her brother, a child of 12 years, suceeded to the thro
ne jointly with the provision that they should marry.  She drove him off the throne with the help of Julius Caesar, and gave birth to his son, Caesarion.  FTP, name this lover of Mark Antony, the queen of Egypt.
\par \tab Answer:  _Cleopatra_ VII
\par 
\par 12.  He served as minister to Spain in 1942, but he is better known as a writer.  His works include \'f1Bracebridge Hall\'ee and \'f1Tales of a Traveler.\'ee   He wrote a \'f1A History of New York\'ee
 under the pseudonym Diedrich Knickerbocker, as well as \'f1The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon.\'ee  FTP, name this author of \'f1Rip Van Winkle\'ee and \'f1The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.\'ee
\par \tab Answer:  Washington _Irving_
\par 
\par 13.  He was authorized by the Pierce adminstration to offer Santa Anna up to fifty million dollars for two-hundred fifty square miles.  In t
he end, Mexico ended up giving up only 55 thousand square miles for fifteen million dollars, but it was enough to complete the transcontinental railroad.  FTP, name this diplomat who negotiated the purchase of this land in New Mexico and Arizona.
\par \tab Answer:  James _Gadsden_ or Gadsden Purchase
\par 
\par 14.  An incarnation of Krishna, it was found in the Indian town of Puri.  There, during the annual festival of Rathayatra, a gigantic idol representing the god was drawn on an enormous wooden car from its temple to a
 garden house, and worshippers threw themselves under its huge wheels.  FTP, what is this idol that has given its name to an invincible crushing force.
\par \tab Answer:  The _Juggernaut_
\par 
\par 15.  Traditionally, it presents a pair of contrasting images, one suggestive of time and place, the other a vivid observation, as in this example:
\par "Now the swinging bridge
\par Is quieted with creepers ...
\par Like our tendrilled life."
\par The verse form was perfected by the poet Basho.  FTP, name this type of Japanese poetry in three lines of five, seven, and five syllables.
\par answer:  _Haiku_
\par 
\par 16.  In 1519, he set sail from Cuba despite the cancellation of his commission by Velazquez who suspected that he would try to establish himself as an independent governor.  He sailed along the 
Yucatan and subjugated Tabasco, filling the natives with awe because they believed him to be the god Quetzalcoatl.  FTP, name this conqueror of the Aztecs.
\par \tab Answer:  Hernan or Hernando _Cortez_
\par 
\par 17.  Its orbit is titled 17 degrees relative to the plane of the Earth'
s orbit, and is also highly noncircular.  It was discovered when, while looking at photographs of the constellation Gemini, Clyde Tombaugh discovered a start that flickered.  FTP, name this object that, may or may not be a planet, but has a moon, Charon.

\par \tab Answer:  _Pluto_
\par 
\par 18.  He met Esther Johnson, to whom he wrote the \'f1Journal to Stella,\'ee but it is uncertain if he ever married her.  In 1729, he published his ironical \'f1A Modest Proposal,\'ee suggesting that poor people should raise their childr
en to be eaten.  FTP, name this satirist most famous for _Gulliver's Travels_.
\par \tab Answer:  Jonathan _Swift_
\par 
\par 19.  Born with the last name Ulyanov, his elder brother was hanged for plotting to assassinate Czar Alexander III.  At the end of his first period in Siberai, he went abroad and published the newspaper called \'f1Iskra\'ee or \'f1The Spark.\'ee
  He also wrote \'f1What is to Be Done?\'ee  FTP, name this leader of the Bolsheviks.
\par \tab Answer:  Vladimir Ilyich _Lenin_
\par 
\par 20.  At the age of 5, his father still had not given h
im a name, but insistance of his eldest brother, Wilhelm Friedemann, he gave him three initials, which he said stood for nothing.  Described as the last, and by all means the least of twenty-odd children, his works include the cantata Iphigenia in Brookly
n and The Pervertimento for Bagpipes, Bicycle, and Balloons.  FTP, name this musical hoax of Peter Schickele.
\par \tab Answer:  _PDQ Bach_
\par 
\par 21.  The subject of a book by Francis Parkman, it featured the difficult climb through the Blue Mountains, and the descent 
from Fort Walla Walla down the Columbia River -- usually done with Conestoga covered wagons.  The goal was the Willamette Valley, two thousand miles from the starting point in Independence Missouri.  FTP, name this overland route followed by migrants in t
he 1840s.
\par }\pard \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  The _Oregon Trail_
\par }\pard \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 \page }{\f0 1996 Maryland Classic
\par }{\f0 
\par 1.  Answer these questions about chess, 10 each:
\par 1.  In 1972, Boris Spassky of Russia was defeated in Reykjavik, Iceland, giving the world championship to what American?
\par \tab Answer:  Bobby _Fischer_
\par 2.  Bobby Fischer was stripped of his title after he failed to accept a match with what russian challeng4e in 1975?
\par \tab Answer:  Anatoly _Karpov_
\par 3.  Karpov was later defeated by what current champion?
\par \tab Answer:  Gary _Kasparov_
\par 
\par 2.  Answer the following about the year 1792, 10 each:
\par 1.  Work was begun on what building in Washington D.C. designed by William Thornton?
\par \tab Answer:  The _Capitol_
\par 2.  David Rittenhouse was named the first director of what Philadelphia-based facility authorized by the Coinage Act?
\par \tab Answer:  The U.S. _Mint_
\par 3.  The Merhcants Coffee House in New York became the site of what trading institution?
\par \tab Answer:  The New York _Stock Exchange_
\par 
\par 3.  Identify the following Edgar Allan Poe short stories from brief descriptions, 10 each:
\par 1.  Montresor gets his friend drunk and walls him up with brick and mortar.
\par \tab Answer:  The _Cask of Amontillado_
\par 2.  Men search for the buried treasure of Captain Kidd on Sullivan's Island, using a scarab.
\par \tab Answer:  The _Gold-Bug_
\par 3.  A mother and daughter are found killed, but all the exits to the house are locked from the inside.  C. Auguste Dupin pins the crime on an orangutan.
\par \tab Answer:  The _Murders in the Rue Morgue_
\par 
\par 4.  For 5 points each, tell me to what class in the Linnaean classification system the following animals belong:
\par 1.  The giant squid
\par \tab Answer: _Cephalopoda_ or cephalopods
\par 2.  Frogs
\par \tab Answer:  _Amphibia_ or amphibians
\par 3.  Snails
\par \tab Answer:  _Gastropoda_ or gastropods
\par 4.  Ants
\par \tab Answer:  _Insecta_ or insects
\par 5.  Birds
\par \tab Answer:  _Aves_
\par 
\par 5.  Identify the name shared by the kings with the following nicknames:
\par 1.  The Pious, the Stammerer, the Young, the Child, the German.
\par \tab Answer:  _Louis_
\par 2.  The Fat, the Simple, the Bad, the Bald, the Fair, the Great.
\par \tab Answer:  _Charles_
\par 3.  The Fair, the Bold, the Handsome, the Arabian, and \'f1of Macedon.\'ee
\par \tab Answer:  _Philip_
\par 
\par 6.  Answer the following about Euripides' play _Medea_, 10 each:
\par 1.  The sorceress Medea is the princess of what region on the eastern shore of the Black sea?
\par \tab Answer:  _Colchis_
\par 2.  As a witch, Medea was a devoted follower of what Greek goddess of crossroads?
\par \tab Answer:  _Hecate_
\par 3.  As she fled from Colchis with Jason, she delayed her father's pursuing ships by cutting up Apsyrtus and throwing him into the water.  What was Apsyrtus' relation to Medea?
\par \tab Answer:  He was her _brother_ (or she was his _sister_)
\par 
\par 7.  Answer the following about protozoans, 10 each.
\par 1.  The only naturally occuring wheel is found in this organelle that serves as the primary means of locomotion for members of the Phylum mastigophora (\'f1mast ih GOFF uhr uh\'ee)
\par \tab Answer:  _Flagellum_
\par 2.  Members of the genus Trypanosoma cause trypanosomiasis, also known as African Sleeping Sickness.  The protozoan is transmitted by the bite of what insect?
\par \tab Answer:  The _Tsetse Fly_
\par 3.  Amoebas and other sarcodines move by cytoplasmic streaming, using what extensions of cytoplasm?
\par \tab Answer:  _Pseudopods_ or pseudopodia
\par 
\par 8.  Identify the poems from which the following lines are taken, for 10 points each:
\par 1.  \'f1Theirs not to make reply,
\par Theirs not to reason why,
\par Theirs but to do and die.\'ee
\par \tab Answer:  The _Charge of the Light Brigade_
\par 2.  \'f1The self-same moment I could pray;
\par And from my neck so free
\par The Albatross fell off, and sank
\par Like lead into the sea.\'ee
\par \tab Answer:  The _Rime of the Ancient Mariner_
\par 3.  \'f1'Beauty is truth, truth beauty,' -- that is all
\par Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know.\'ee
\par \tab Answer:  _Ode on a Grecian Urn_.
\par 
\par 9.  Answer these U.S. history questions, 10 each:
\par 1.  In 1867, Oliver Hudson Kelley founded the Patrons of Husbandry, an association of farmers otherwise known by what name?
\par \tab Answer:  The National _Grange_
\par 2.  1867 also saw the publication of the first of the Ragged Dick novels, written by what author?
\par \tab Answer:  Horatio _Alger_ Jr.
\par 3.  In the same year, what secretary of state under Andrew Johnson was ridiculed for his purchase of Alaska?
\par \tab Answer:  William Henry _Seward_
\par 
\par 10.  Answer the following about the philosophical work _The Metaphysic of Morals_, 10 each:
\par 1.  The work contains the sentence: \'f1Act only on that maxim through which you can at the same time will that it should become a universal law.\'ee  What is the two-word term for this rule?
\par \tab Answer:  The _Categorical Imperative_
\par 2.   What philosopher, the formulator of the categorical imperative, was the author of \'f1The Metaphysic of Morals\'ee?
\par \tab Answer:  Immanuel _Kant_
\par 3.  Kant wrote three works, the [blank] of Pure Reason, the [blank] of Practical Reason, and the [blank] of Judgement.  What same word completes all three titles?
\par \tab Answer:  _Critique_
\par 
\par 11.  Answer the following about the metals Magnesium, Calcium, Strontium, and Barium, 10 each:
\par 1.  These are all metals of Group II of the Periodic table, the Alkali Earth metals.  This means that they have what valence charge?
\par \tab Answer:  _+2_
\par 2.  For 10 points, name either of the other two members of Group II.
\par \tab Answer:  _Beryllium_ or _Radium_
\par 3.  Magnesium, Calcium, Strontium, and Barium were all discovered by what English chemist, the mentor of Michael Faraday?
\par \tab Answer:  Sir Humphrey _Davy_
\par 
\par 12.  In the cartoon \'f1Peanuts,\'ee Snoopy often sits at his typewriter on top of his doghouse and attempts to write a novel.  Answer the following about this attempt:
\par 1.  Time and again, Snoopy begins his masterpiece with what hackneyed and trite opening seven-word phrase?
\par \tab Answer:  _\'f1It was a dark and stormy night....\'ee_
\par 2.  The line \'f1It was a dark and stormy night\'ee was actually the opening of _Paul Clifford_, a work by what Victorian English novelist?
\par \tab Answer:  Edward _Bulwer-Lytton_
\par 3.  Edward Bulwer-Lytton is most famous for his historical novel about the \'f1Last Days\'ee of what ancient city?
\par \tab Answer:  _Pompeii_
\par 
\par 13.  Tell me who served as vice-president under the following presidents of the United States, 10 each:
\par 1.  Martin Van Buren
\par \tab Answer:  Richard M. _Johnson_
\par 2.  Grover Cleveland's second term
\par \tab Answer:  Adlai E. _Stevenson_
\par 3.  John Quincy Adams
\par \tab Answer:  John C. _Calhoun_
\par 
\par 14.  Name the authors of the following French works, 10 each:
\par 1.  Camille
\par \tab Answer:  Alexandre _Dumas fils_ or the younger
\par 2.  The Phantom of the Opera
\par \tab Answer:  Gaston _Leroux_
\par 3.  The Man in the Iron Mask
\par \tab Answer:  Alexandre _Dumas_ pere
\par 
\par 15.  Identify the cellular organelles that accomplish the following tasks, 10 each:
\par 1.  Divided into smooth and rough varieties, this is a membrane system that serves as a transport.
\par \tab Answer:  _Endoplasmic Reticulum_
\par 2.  Adenosine triphosphate is formed in these cell respiration centers in which chemical reactions release energy from nutrients.  These organelles have their own DNA.
\par \tab Answer:  _Mitochondrion_ or plural mitochondria
\par 3.  Proteins are manufactured in these round organelles attached to the endoplasmic reticulum.
\par \tab Answer:  _Ribosomes_
\par 
\par 16.  Answer the following about U.S. history and literature, 10 each:
\par 1.  In 1935 Dr. Carl A. Weiss assassinated what Louisiana governor who called himself the Kingfish and announced a Share-the-Wealth plan?
\par \tab Answer:  Huey Pierce _Long_
\par 2.  Huey Long was the basis for the novel _All the King's Men_ by what first poet laureate of the United States?
\par \tab Answer:  Robert Penn _Warren_
\par 3.  The similarly titled best-seller _All the President's Men_ was written by what two Washington Post reporters who uncovered the Watergate scandal?
\par \tab Answer:  Carl _Bernstein_ and Bob _Woodward_
\par 
\par 17.  Given some battles, name the war in which they were fought, 10 each:
\par 1.  Cannae and Lake Trasimene.
\par \tab Answer:  _Second Punic_ War (prompt on Punic)
\par 2.  Siege of Sevastopol, the Battle of Balaklava, the Battle of the Alma.
\par \tab Answer:  The _Crimean_ War
\par 3.  Battle of Stormberg, Battle of Colenso, Siege of Mafeking
\par \tab Answer:  The Second _Boer_ War
\par 
\par 18.  Place the following rocks in ascending order of hardness according to the Moh's scale, for 5 points for each in the correct position.
\par The rocks are:  Corundum, Gypsum, Apatite, Feldspar, Talc, and Calcite
\par \tab Answer:  _Talc, Gypsum, Calcite, Apatite, Feldspar, Corundum_
\par 
\par 19.  30-20-10 Name the author from works:
\par 30:  _King, Queen, Knave_, _Bend Sinister_, and _Invitation to a Beheading_
\par 20:  _Pale Fire_ and _Laughter in the Dark_
\par 10:  _Lolita_
\par \tab Answer:  Vladimir _Nabokov_
\par 
\par 20.  Name the artists who painted the following, 10 each:
\par 1.  The Blue Boy
\par \tab Answer:  Thomas _Gainsborough_
\par 2.  The Yellow Christ
\par \tab Answer:  Paul _Gauguin_
\par 3.  Arrangement in Black and Gray: The Artist's Mother
\par \tab Answer:  James Abbott McNeil _Whistler_
\par }}