{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f224\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f225\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f227\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f228\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f229\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f236\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f237\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f239\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f240\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f241\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title High School Packet #1}{\author Jason Hong}
{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min48}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min48}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords2010}{\nofchars11462}{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws14076}{\vern71}}
\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale110\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0 High School Packet #1
\par Compiled by: Michael Starsinic, Ohio State
\par 
\par 1. This Ohio native's finest moment probably occurred on the afternoon of the final day of the Battle of Gettysburg, when Union cavalry under his command thwa
rted an attempt by J.E.B. Stuart's cavalry to flank the Union army.  FTP, identify this flamboyant man, known as the "boy general", who is probably more well known for his ignominious end at the Little Big Horn in 1876.
\par \tab Answer: George Armstrong _Custer_
\par 
\par 2. A day on this planet lasts only 9hours and 55 minutes, the shortest of any planet in our solar system.  Its circumference, 280,000 miles is more than 10 times as large as the circumference of the Earth, making it the largest planet in our solar system
.  FTP, name this gas giant.
\par \tab Answer: _Jupiter_
\par 
\par 3.  Aldous Huxley wasn't being original when he chose the title of _Brave New World_, but was instead borrowing a quote from the last play Shakespeare ever wrote.  FTP, name this drama featuring Ferdinand, Caliban, Miranda, and Caliban.
\par \tab Answer: The _Tempest_
\par 
\par 4. He died on April 3, 1996, when a US military plane crashed en route from Tuzla, Bosnia, to Dubrovnik, Croatia.  FTP, who was this man, the former chairman of the Democratic party and the first African-America Secretary of Commerce?
\par \tab Answer: Ron _Brown_
\par 
\par 5. Named by Europeans for a great precolonial kingdom located near this river's mouth, it flows from its headwaters in Zambia north into Zaire, then southwest, passing Brazzaville and Kinshasa be
fore entering the Atlantic.  FTP, identify this river, the second longest in Africa, which lends it name to a book by Michael Crichton.
\par \tab Answer: _Congo_
\par 
\par 6. This Dutch merchant who ground lenses as a hobby made over 400 simple
\par microscopes and used them to observe spermatozoa, bacteria, and capillaries.  He also discovered what he called "animalicules."  FTP, name this scientist, the first to observe protozoa.
\par \tab Answer: Anton von _Leeuwenhoek_ (LAY-van-hook)
\par 
\par 7. Born in Boston in 1836, his artistic style
 changed dramatically after an 1881-82 trip to an English fishing village, and upon returning to the US he settled on the Maine coast.  FTP, name this artist of "Eight Bells", "The Fog Warning", and "The Gulf Stream".
\par \tab Answer: Winslow _Homer_
\par 
\par 8. The rulers of the province Ile-de-France, their dynasty succeeded the Carolingians, and they in turn were succeeded in 1328 by the Valois dynasty.  FTP, what was this line of French kings, founded in 987 with the election of Hugh as king of France.

\par \tab Answer: _Capetians_
\par 
\par 9. Their only returning starter from last year averaged only one point per game, and this team was unanimously picked to finish last in their conference. Despite this, they made the NCAA tournament, but lost to Utah in the second round.  FTP, wha
t was this team that finished 2nd to Kansas in the Big 8, located in Ames, Iowa, and nicknamed the Cyclones?
\par \tab Answer: _Iowa State_ University
\par 
\par 10. Named after their German discoverer, these irregular masses of endocrine cells secrete glucagon and insulin, and their degeneration is possibly the cause of diabetes mellitus.  FTP, name these cells located in the interstitial tissue of the pancreas.

\par \tab Answer: _Islets of Langerhans_
\par 
\par 11. One of the days of the Christian Holy Week, it commemorates Christ's washing of his disciples' feet and the institution of Holy Communion at the last supper.  FTP, what is the name given to this celebration the Thursday before Easter?
\par \tab Answer: _Maundy_ Thursday
\par 
\par 12. In the process of canonization, this person tests the claims
 of the candidate for canonization and advances all arguments he can against the candidate.  FTP, what is the term for this person, which has come to mean any person who deliberately takes an opposing view.
\par \tab Answer: _Devil's Advocate_
\par 
\par 13. In 1800, the C
ongress of the US apropriated $5000, "...for the purchase of such books as may be necessary for the use of Congress at the said city of Washington, and for fitting up a suitable apartment for containing them...".  FTP, what was born from that decree?

\par \tab Answer: the _Library of Congress_
\par 
\par 14. This disorder results when a certain chromosome fails to separate during meiosis.  Today it is called Trisomy-21, but in an earlier age it was known as Mongolism.  FTP what is this genetic disorder?
\par \tab Answer: _Down's Syndrome_, accept _Trisomy 21_ on an early buzz
\par 
\par 15. Twice saved from bankruptcy by Johns Hopkins, it purchased the "Tom Thumb" steam locomotive in 1830.  FTP, name this first US passenger railroad which opened 13 miles of track between Ellicott's Mills and
 Baltimore in 1830, one of the four railroads on the Monopoly board.
\par \tab Answer: _Baltimore and Ohio_ Railroad, or _B & O_ Railroad
\par 
\par 16. This new product was recently approved by the FDA for use in salted snack foods, and will be called Olean as a Procter & Gamble trademark.  FTP name this fat substitute which provides the taste and texture of fat with zero calories.
\par \tab Answer: _Olestra_
\par 
\par 17. Her movie career stalled while she was at Yale, but she has come back strong, directing "Home for the Holidays" and "
Little Man Tate", and appearing in "Maverick".  FTP, name this actress who won her second Oscar for her protrayal of Clarice Starling in "The Silence of the Lambs".
\par \tab Answer: Jodie _Foster_
\par 
\par 18. The daughter of Phorcys and Hecate, she was loved by Poseido
n, but his wife, Amphritrite, poisoned the pool where she bathed and she was turned into a six-headed monster with twelve legs.  FTP, name this sea monster whom Odysseus had to avoid while also avoiding the whirlpool Charybdis.
\par \tab Answer: _Scylla_
\par 
\par 19. This famous quote was spoken on December 16, 1944, when the German army had surrounded U.S. Brigadier General Anthony McAuliffe's troops at Bastogne, Belgium, and demanded his surrender.  FTP, what was his famous and defiant one word reply?
\par \tab Answer: "_Nuts_"
\par 
\par 20. This author worked as an surveyor at customs houses in both Boston and Salem, and spent a year at the Utopian community of Brook Farm.  FTP, name this author of the short story collection _Twice Told Tales_, and the novels  _The Blithedale Romance_,
 _The House of the Seven Gables_ and _The Scarlet Letter_.
\par \tab Answer: Nathaniel _Hawthorne_
\par 
\par 21. It's 1994 sequel, _Closing Time_, continued the tale of Captain Yossarian.  FTP, what was this book, whose title is now a common phrase for any dilemma, written by Joseph Heller.
\par \tab Answer: "_Catch-22_"
\par 
\par 22. A member of Congress from New York from 1917 to 1919, and from 1923 to 1933, he served as mayor of New York City from 1933 to 1945, and drastically reduced corruption in city government.  FTP, name this man 
who now has a New York City airport named for him.
\par \tab Answer: Fiorello _LaGuardia_
\par 
\par \page Bonuses
\par 
\par 1. 30-20-10 Identify the author given works.
\par 30 - _The Gilded Age_, "The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg"
\par 20 - _The Innocents Abroad_, _Roughing It_
\par 10 - _The Prince & the Pauper_, "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County"
\par \tab Answer: Mark _Twain_ (or Samuel Langhorne _Clemens_)
\par 
\par 2. Identify the element for 15 points on the first clue, or from its number & the elements it is between on the periodic table for 5 points.
\par 1.  For 15 points: This transition element derives its name from the German for "goblin."  It is used in magnetic alloys, and its compounds are used as red, yellow & blue pigments.
\par For 5 points: 27, Iron & Nickel
\par \tab Answer: _Cobalt_
\par 2.  For 1
5 points: This noble gas was discovered by Ramsay & Travers in 1898, and its name comes from the Greek for "a stranger".  It is used in stroboscopic lights, and it was the first noble gas shown to make compounds, having been made to combine with fluorine 
and oxygen.
\par For 5 points: 53, Iodine only
\par \tab Answer: _Xenon_
\par 
\par 3. (30) Given the name of a song, name the Disney film in which it appears for ten points each.
\par 1.  Sister Suffragette
\par \tab Answer:  _Mary Poppins_
\par 2.  Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo
\par \tab Answer:  _Cinderella_
\par 3.  Candle on the Water
\par \tab Answer:  _Pete's Dragon_
\par 
\par 4. Each of the three Presidents below had 2 different vice-presidents.  Name each of the veeps for 5 points each.
\par 1. Abraham Lincoln      \tab \tab - Hannibal _Hamlin_, Andrew _Johnson_
\par 2. Thomas Jefferson     \tab \tab - Aaron _Burr_, George _Clinton_
\par 3. Andrew Jackson               \tab - John C. _Calhoun_, Martin _Van Buren_
\par 
\par 5. Identify the artists of the following 20th century paintings, for 10 points each:
\par 1. "The Persistence of Memory", 1931    \tab - Salvador _Dali_
\par 2. "Guernica", 1937                             \tab - Pablo _Picasso_
\par 3. "Whaam!", 1963                                       \tab - Roy _Lichtenstein_
\par 
\par 6. Name the Shakesperean plays from some characters, for 10 points each.
\par 1.  Malvolio, Orsino, Olivia
\par \tab Answer: "Twelfth Night"
\par 2. Claudius, Polonius, Ophelia
\par \tab Answer: "Hamlet"
\par 3. Lysander, Bottom, Titania
\par \tab Answer: "A Midsummer Night's Dream"
\par 
\par 7. For 10 points each, name the phylum of the animal kingdom each of the following belongs to.
\par 1. humans               \tab - _chordata_ or _chordates_
\par 2. shrimp               \tab - _arthropoda_ or _arthropods_
\par 3. starfish             \tab \tab - _echinodermata_ or _echinoderms_
\par 
\par 8. 1.  For 10 points, what is the term used for the movement to establish a Jewish state in Palestine, especially the political movement of the late 1800's and early 1900's.
\par \tab Answer: _Zionism_
\par 2.  For another 10 points, who was the Austrian writer & founder of the political Zionist movement, who organized the first World Zionist Conference in 1897.
\par \tab Answer: Theodore _Herzl_
\par 3.  And for a final 10 points, what was the common name for the 1917 British policy statement guaranteeing a Jewish national home in Palestine.
\par \tab Answer: _Balfour Declaration_
\par 
\par 9. Given some national parks, name the state in which they are
\par located for 10 points each.
\par 1. Kobuk Valley, Wrangel-St. Elias, Denali
\par \tab Answer: _Alaska_
\par 2. Big Bend
\par \tab Answer: _Texas_
\par 3. Capitol Reef, Arches, Canyonlands
\par \tab Answer: _Utah_
\par 
\par 10. For 10 points each, given an incomplete name of a labor of Hercules, fill in the blank with the appropriate word.  For example, if I said "the Cretan <blank>", you'd say "bull".
\par 1. the <blank> Stables
\par \tab Answer:  _Augean_
\par 2. the <blank> Lion
\par \tab Answer:  _Nemean_
\par 3. the Apples of the <blank>
\par \tab Answer:  _Hesperides_
\par 
\par 11.  For 5 points each, name the standard SI units used to measure the following:
\par 1.  Mass\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer:  The _Kilogram_
\par 2.  Work\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer:  The _Joule_
\par 3.  Electric resistance\tab \tab \tab Answer:  The _Ohm_
\par 4.  Amount of substance\tab \tab \tab Answer:  The _Mole_
\par 5.  Thermodynamic temperature\tab \tab Answer:  The _Kelvin_
\par 6.  Luminous intensity\tab \tab \tab Answer:  The _Candela_
\par 
\par 12. Name the following Supreme Court cases from descriptions, for 10 points each.
\par 1. 1819 - The Court ruled that a charter is a contract which the Constitution protects against state legislative interference.
\par \tab Answer: Trustees of _Dartmouth College_ v. Woodward
\par 2. 1919 - The Court ruled that the government cannot restrict freedom of speech unless the speech creates a "clear and present danger".
\par \tab Answer: _Schenk v. United States_
\par 3. 1962 - The Court ruled that states could not require students to recite a prayer in public schools.
\par \tab Answer: _Engle v. Vitale_
\par 
\par 13. State name trivia, part 1!  There are seven letters which do not begin the name of any US state.  For 5 points each, name any six of these seven letters.
\par \tab Answer: _B, E, J, Q, X, Y, Z_
\par 
\par 14. In late March of 1996, mad cow disease or BSE was in the headlines as fear spread of transmission of this deadly nervous system disease from eating contaminated beef.  For 10 points each what do the letters BSE stand for?
\par \tab Answer: _bovine_ _spongiform_ _encephalitis_
\par 
\par 15. For 5 points each, name any six of the seven books of C.S. Lewis's "Chronicles of Narnia".
\par \tab Answer: _The Last Battle_; _The Magician's Nephew_; _The Horse and His Boy_; _The Silver Chair_; _The Voyage of the "Dawn Treader"_; _Prince Caspian_; _The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe_
\par 
\par 16. 30-20-10 Name the year from events.
\par 30: Frank Robinson becomes the first African-American to manage a Major League baseball team; Yitzhak Rabin is named to head the Israeli cabinet after Golda Meir steps down
\par 20: "The Godfather, Part II" wins the Best Picture Oscar; Muhammad Ali defeats George Foreman in Zaire to regain the heavyweight title
\par 10: Richard Nixon resigns as President on August 9.
\par \tab Answer: 1974
\par 
\par 17. For the stated number of points, given a location's former name, provide its current one.
\par For 5 points: Abyssinia\tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: _Ethiopia_
\par For 5 points: Siam\tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: _Thailand_
\par For 10 points: Van Diemen's Land\tab \tab \tab Answer: _Tasmania_
\par For 10 points: Southern Rhodesia\tab \tab \tab Answer: _Zimbabwe_
\par 
\par 18. Excluding a cameo in _ET_ which ended up on the cutting room floor, Harrison Ford has been in 6 of the top 20 grossing movies of all time.  Name them for 5 points each.
\par \tab Answer: _Star Wars_, _Return of the Jedi_, _The Empire Strikes Back_, _Raiders of
\par the Lost Ark_, _Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom_, _The Fugitive_
\par 
\par 19. Quarks are believed to be the fundamental building blocks of much of matter.  For 5 points each, name the six quarks that have been postulated to exist.
\par \tab Answer: _up_, _down_, _strange_, _charm_, _bottom_ (or beauty), _top_ (or truth)
\par 
\par 20. Given two movies, name the actor or actress they have in common for 10 points each.
\par 1) Project X; Glory
\par \tab Answer: Matthew _Broderick_
\par 2) Dirty Dancing; To Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything - Julie Newmar
\par \tab Answer: Patrick _Swayze_
\par 3) Dick Tracy; Desperately Seeking Susan
\par \tab Answer: _Madonna_
\par 
\par 21. Identify the Bob Dylan songs from which each of the following lines comes, FTPE.
\par 1) "Admit that the waters around you have grown, and admit that soon
\par you'll be drenched to the bone"
\par \tab Answer: "The Times They Are A-Changin'"
\par 2) "How does it feel to be on your own?"
\par \tab Answer: "Like A Rolling Stone"
\par 3) "Everybody must get stoned."
\par \tab Answer: "Rainy Day Women # 12 & 35"
\par }}