{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f224\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f225\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f227\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f228\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f229\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f236\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f237\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f239\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f240\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f241\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title HS Tournament Packet #2}{\author Jason Hong}
{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min46}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min46}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords2262}{\nofchars12897}{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws15838}{\vern71}}
\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale110\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0 HS Tournament Packet #2
\par Compiled by Steve Pedler, Ohio State
\par 
\par 1.  The author of a regular column in the magazine _Natural History_, he helped postulate the theory of punctuated equilibrium.  FTP, identify this Harvard professor of evolutionary biology, author of the book _Wonderful Life_.
\par \tab Answer: Stephen Jay _Gould_
\par 
\par 2.  This nomin
ally professional sports team's motto is, appropriately, "We're working on it."  This slogan was coined by the corporation that took over ownership of the franchise from the late Phil Wrigly.  FTP, identify this National League baseball team, which has no
t won a World Series championship since 1908.
\par \tab Answer: Chicago _Cubs_
\par 
\par 3.  The first African-American to be granted a Ph.D. from Harvard University, this man advocated the "talented tenth" program as the best means for attaining racial equality in America
.  FTP, identify this noted scholar, author, and longtime vocal opponent of Booker T. Washington.
\par \tab Answer:  William Edward Burghardt (W.E.B.) _DuBois_  (pronounced "due-BOYS")
\par 
\par 4.  This novel, published in 1899, featured as its protagonist Edna Pontelier
, a young woman who defied conventional social standards of 19th century society.  She became involved in a scandalous extra-marital affair and eventually drowned herself.  FTP, identify this novel, set in New Orleans and written by Kate Chopin.
\par \tab Answer:  The _Awakening_
\par 
\par 5.  Two of the major subdivisions of this religion are Mahayana, which originated in China and filtered its way down into what is today Vietnam, and Hinayana, originating in India and dominant today in Cambodia.  It was founded by a Hind
u man who had a revelation while sitting under a tree.  FTP, name this religion, one of the largest in Southeast Asia, the official state religion of Thailand.
\par \tab Answer:  _Buddhism_
\par 
\par 6.  The international unit equal to the amount of radiation required to 
produce one elec-trostatic unit of electrical change in one cubic centimeter of dry air bears this man's name.  FTP, name this German who was awarded the Nobel prize in Physics in 1901 for his discovery of X-Rays.
\par \tab Answer: Wilhelm _Roentgen_
\par 
\par 7.  He was 
shot in the chest while campaigning in Milwaukee in 1912 by John Nepomuk Schrank, a saloon keeper who objected to this man seeking a third term in office.  Unperturbed, he went on to deliver his speech before seeking medical attention.  FTP, identify this
 U.S. President, who succeeded to the office after the assassination of McKinley.
\par \tab Answer:  _T_heodore _Roosevelt_ (prompt on "Roosevelt")
\par 
\par 8.  Running from the mouth of the Zampezi River up through East Africa, to the Red Sea, and into the Jordan River V
alley, this major geological feature will eventually spawn a new ocean.  FTP, identify this valley which contains Lake Nyasa and Lake Tanganyika.
\par \tab Answer: _Great Rift_ Valley
\par 
\par 9.  "Dateline NBC" hypothesized that he was heavily influenced by Joseph Conra
d's work _The Secret Agent_.  He was turned in by his brother when anarchical literature was found among his belongings at his mother's house.  FTP, name this man, who was taken into custody by the F.B.I. on April 3, 1996, as the prime suspect in the Unab
omber case.
\par \tab Answer:  Theodore John (Ted) _Kaczynski_
\par 
\par 10.  Its protagonist, Bigger Thomas, is a black man in early 20th Century Chicago who takes a job with a prominent white family.  After he accidentally kills his employer's daughter, he is hunted down
 by the police, arrested, tried, and executed.  FTP, identify Richard Wright novel.
\par \tab Answer:  _Native Son_
\par 
\par 11.  This late 16th and early 17th century Italian artist once killed a man after losing a tennis match.  His work influenced R.E.M.'s video "Losi
ng My Religion."  FTP, identify this painter of the baroque movement, whose works included _The Fortune Teller_, _The Calling of St. Matthew_, and _The Conversion of St. Paul_.
\par \tab Answer:  Michaelangelo Merisi de _Carravaggio_ (do NOT accept "Michaelangelo")
\par 
\par 12. This disciple, traditionally credited with writing four books of the New Testament, was the brother of James the Greater and the son of Zebedee.  FTP, who is referred to throughout the Gospel which bears his name as "the disciple whom Jesus loved"?

\par \tab Answer: Saint _John_
\par 
\par 13.  His favorite word is "billion", or so you would assume after seeing him on television.  His published works include _The Dragons of Eden_, _Murmurs of Earth_, _Comet_, _Broca's Brain_, and _Cosmos_.  FTP, identify this Cornell professor of astronomy.

\par \tab Answer: Carl _Sagan_
\par 
\par 14.  This economic term became vogue in the early 1970s when the Nixon administration cut Federal government spending and raised federal interest rates, which in turn led businesses to cut back production.
  FTP, identify this term, denoting a period of high inflation coupled with an economic recession.
\par \tab Answer: _Stagflation_
\par 
\par 15.  He appeared in the James Bond spoof _Casino Royale_, and starred as the villain opposite Charlton Heston in _Touch of Evil_.  
He directed the adaptation of Booth Tarkington's _The Magnificent Ambersons_.  FTP, identify this Hollywood legend, who produced, directed, co-wrote, and starred in the 1941 classic _Citizen Kane_.
\par \tab Answer: Orson _Welles_
\par 
\par 16.  It has a total area of 226,600 square miles and a population of 13.7 million.  Its national capital and largest city is Antananarivo.  FTP, identify this island nation, located off the Eastern coast of Africa in the Indian Ocean.
\par \tab Answer:  _Madagascar_
\par 
\par 17.  This 1851 discovery by William Kelly revolutionized industry in 1851.  FAQTP, identify the process by which pig iron may be converted into steel.
\par \tab Answer: _Bessemer_ process
\par 
\par 18.  The name's the same:  a song by Junior Walker and the All-Stars, the slang term for riding in t
he front passenger seat of an automobile, and a football play in which the quarterback receives the snap several yards behind the center.  FTP, give the shared name, which also identifies a class of firearms.
\par \tab Answer: _Shotgun_
\par 
\par 19.  This English poet, who lived from 1792 to 1822, wrote such poems as "The World's Great Age" and "The Indian Serenade."  His wife, Mary, was an accomplished author in her own right.  FTP, identify the author of "Ozymandias."
\par \tab Answer: Percy Bysshe _Shelley_
\par 
\par 20.  This Populis
t party member was chosen as the combined Populist/Democratic nominee for the U.S. presidency in 1896.  At the Democratic national convention in that year, he delivered one of the most famous speeches in American political history.  FTP, identify this man
, who, in spite of his "Cross of Gold" speech, lost the 1896 election to William McKinley.
\par \tab Answer: William Jennings _Bryan_
\par 
\par 21.  Between 1961 and 1989, some 10,000 people attempted to cross this barrier, a barricade of barbed wire and cinderblocks that 
was later replaced by a system of concrete walls and minefields.  FTP, name this structure separating the capital of Germany into capitalist and communist sections.
\par \tab Answer:  The _Berlin Wall_
\par 
\par \page Bonuses
\par 
\par 1.  FFPE, identify the four novels by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle in which Sherlock Holmes appeared.
\par \tab Answer:  _A Study in Scarlet_, _The Sign of Four_, The _Hound of the Baskervilles_, and The _Valley of Fear_
\par 2.  Now, for an additional ten points, identify the Doyle short story in which Holmes and his arch-nemesis Professor Moriarty allegedly died at the Reichenbach Falls.
\par \tab Answer:  The _Final Problem_
\par 
\par 2.  Identify the artist given a work of art FTPE.
\par 1.  The Night Watch
\par \tab Answer:  _Rembrandt_ van Rijn
\par 2.  The Death of Marat
\par \tab Answer:  Jacques-Louis _David_ (Dah-VEED)
\par 3.  Nighthawks
\par \tab Answer:  Edward _Hopper_
\par 
\par 3.  Given the name of a Latin American nation, identify that nation's capital city, for 5 points each.
\par 1.  Belize
\par \tab Answer:  _Belmopan_
\par 2.  Argentina
\par \tab Answer:  _Buenos Aires_
\par 3.  Paraguay
\par \tab Answer:  _Ascuncion_
\par 4.  Nicaragua
\par \tab Answer:  _Managua_
\par 5.  Brazil
\par \tab Answer:  _Brasilia_
\par 6.  French Guyana
\par \tab Answer:  _Cayenne_
\par 
\par 4.  Answer the following questions about those British limelight boys, the Beatles, for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  First, FFP, what singer, songwriter, composer, and artist who recorded "Tears in Heaven" was almost a member of the Beatles.
\par \tab Answer:  Eric _Clapton_
\par 2.  Next, FTP, who was the youngest of the four Beatles.
\par \tab Answer:  George _Harrison_
\par 3.  Finally, for fifteen points, what drummer preceded Ringo Starr and was present at the audition for Decca records when the Beatles were rejected by their first major record company?
\par \tab Answer:  Pete _Best_
\par 
\par 5.  Given the generals who commanded the opposing armies, identify the battle being described for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  For 5 points: Napoleon vs. Wellington and von Blucher
\par \tab Answer:  _Waterloo_
\par 2.  For 10 points: Robert E. Lee vs. George G. Meade
\par \tab Answer:  _Gettysburg_
\par 3. For 15 points --Erwin Rommel vs. Bernard Montgomery
\par \tab Answer:  _El Alamein_
\par 
\par 6.  Given the atomic symbol of an element, name that element, for 5 points each.
\par 1.  Mo\tab \tab Answer:  _Molybdenum_
\par 2.  W\tab \tab Answer:  _Tungsten_
\par 3.  Cs\tab \tab Answer:  _Cesium_
\par 4.  Ag\tab \tab Answer:  _Silver_
\par 5.  Kr\tab \tab Answer:  _Krypton_
\par 6.  At\tab \tab Answer:  _Astatine_
\par 
\par 7.  Given a verse from the Bible, identify the book from which it comes FTPE.
\par 1.  "The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord."
\par \tab Answer:  _Job_
\par 2.  "And the four beasts had each of them six wings, and they rest not day and night, saying Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which was, and is, and is to come."
\par \tab Answer:  _Revelation_
\par 3.  "Is it nothing to you, all ye that pass by?  Behold, and see if there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow."
\par \tab Answer:  _Lamentations_
\par 
\par 8.  Given a brief description, identify the political leader referred to FTPE.
\par 1.  After graduating from college, she worked as a research chemist and as a tax lawyer.  First elected to her nation's legislature in 1959, she worked her way up through the ranks of the Conservative party, assuming the leadership of her nation in 1979.

\par \tab Answer:  Margaret _Thatcher_
\par 2.  Her father was executed in the aftermath of a military coup that toppled him from power.  After his death, she 
assumed the leadership of the Pakistan People's Party, only to be placed under arrest by Pakistan's military government.  FTP, identify this woman, who became Pakistan's Prime Minister in 1988.
\par \tab Answer:  Benazir _Bhutto_
\par 3.  Born Nkosikazi Nomzamo Madikizela, she overcame humble origins and "banning" by her country's white minority government to become South Africa's Minister of Culture following the collapse of apartheid.
\par \tab Answer:  _Winnie Mandela_  (full name required -- prompt on partial answers)
\par 
\par 9.  Given a bacterial shape, identify the type of bacteria being described FTPE.
\par 1.  Spherical
\par \tab Answer:  _Coccus_ or _Cocci_
\par 2.  Rod-shaped
\par \tab Answer:  _Bacillus_ or _Bacilli_
\par 3.  Long, tightly-wound spiral
\par \tab Answer:  _Spirochete_
\par 
\par 10.  There has been a rash of incidents lately between players and referees in the NBA.  Answer the following questions about these run-ins FTPE.
\par 1.  Which Chicago Bulls player was suspended for six games and fined $20,000 for
\par head-butting a ref?
\par \tab Answer:  Dennis "Captain Hairdo" _Rodman_
\par 2.  This Los Angeles Laker shoved referee Daryl Garritson onto the scorer's table after being ejected from a game.  He was suspended for the remainder of the regular season and fined $25,000.
\par \tab Answer:  Nick _Van Exel_
\par 3.  After speaking out about the Nick Van Exel incident, this player bumped a ref less than a week later and was ejected, suspended for three games, and fined $10,000.
\par \tab Answer:  Earvin "Magic" _Johnson_
\par 
\par 11.  Answer the following questions about the 19th Century Russian composer Modeste Mussorgsky FTPE.
\par 1.  Identify the Mussorgsky work featured near the end of Disney's _Fantasia_, which seeks to depict musically the noctural dances of demons.
\par \tab Answer:  _Night on Bald Mountain_ (accept "Night on Bare Mountain")
\par 2.  One of Mussorgsky's most famous works was the piano suite "Pictures at an Exhibition", whose leading movement is based on a painting of the Great Gate of what Ukranian city?
\par \tab Answer:  _Kiev_
\par 3.  "Pictures at an Exhibition" was adopted for orchestra by what Frenchman, composer of "Bolero."
\par \tab Answer:  Maurice _Ravel_
\par 
\par 12.  How well do you know your Greek?  FFPE, thirty points possible, list the first six letters of the Greek alphabet.
\par \tab Answer:  _Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, Epsilon, Zeta_
\par 
\par 13.  Given the name of a band, identify that group's lead singer FFPE.
\par 1.  The Rolling Stones
\par \tab Answer:  Mick _Jagger_
\par 2.  The Comets
\par \tab Answer:  Bill _Haley_
\par 3.  The Four Seasons
\par \tab Answer:  Frankie _Valli_
\par 
\par 14.  Identify the African-American being described on a 15-5 basis.
\par 1.  For 15 points: When she was criticized by the NAACP, she replied, "I'd rather play a maid than
\par BE a maid."
\par For 5 points: She was the first African-American to win an Oscar.  She took home the Best Supporting Actress award for her role in 1939's _Gone With the Wind_.
\par \tab Answer:  Hattie _McDaniel_
\par 2.  For 15 points:  He once commented, "The only thing I like integrated is my coffee."
\par For 5 points: He co-wrote his autobiography with Alex Haley, and Spike Lee made that book into a hit movie with Denzel Washington in the title role.
\par \tab Answer:  _Malcolm X_ (accept Malcolm Little)
\par 
\par 15.  Given a work or list of works from the Muckraker period, identify the work's author FTPE.
\par 1.  _History of the Standard Oil Corporation_
\par \tab Answer:  Ida Tarbell_
\par 2.  _The Octopus_, _The Pit_
\par \tab Answer:  Frank _Norris_
\par 3.  _The Shame of the Cities_
\par \tab Answer:  Lincoln _Steffens_
\par 
\par 16.  Let's test your knowledge DNA.  Answer the following questions for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  FFPE, identify the four nitrogenous bases in DNA.
\par \tab Answer:  _Adenine, Cytosine, Guanine, Thymine_
\par 2.  Now, for an additional ten points, identify the base that replaces thymine in RNA.
\par \tab Answer:  _Uracil_
\par 
\par 17.  Identify the actor or actress who gives voice to the following members of "The Simpsons" universe FTPE.
\par 1.  Marge Simpson
\par \tab Answer:  Julie _Kavner_
\par 2.  Bart Simpson
\par \tab Answer:  Nancy _Cartwright_
\par 3.  Troy McClure, frequent host of films and infomercials on The Simpsons.
\par \tab Answer:  Phil _Hartman_
\par 
\par 18.  Given a brief description, identify the historical figure for 30 points after the first clue, 20 after the second, or 10 points after all three.
\par 30:  Her Austrian heritage was widely resented throughout her life in her adopted home of France.
\par 20:  She opposed negotiations with the leaders of the French Revolution, even going so far as to appeal to her brother, Holy Roman Emperor Leopold II, for military intervention.
\par 10: She was guillotined in Paris on October 16, 1793, following a failed escape attempt.
\par \tab Answer:  Marie _Antoinette_
\par 
\par 19.  Identify the authors of the following contemporary bestsellers for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  For 5 points: Seinlanguage
\par \tab Answer:  Jerry _Seinfeld_
\par 2.  For 5 points: Fatherhood
\par \tab Answer:  Bill _Cosby_
\par 3.  For 10 points:  My Point, Or Do I Have One?
\par \tab Answer:  Ellen _Degeneres_
\par 4.  For 10 points: Don't Stand Too Close to a Naked Man
\par \tab Answer:  Tim _Allen_
\par 
\par 20.  Given a clue, identify the first lady of the United States FTPE.
\par 1.  She was once committed to a mental hospital by her son Robert.
\par \tab Answer:  Mary Todd _Lincoln_
\par 2.  She was the first First Lady to be buried in Arlington National Cemetary, along with her husband.
\par \tab Answer:  Helen _Taft_
\par 3.  She was known as the "Steel Magnolia."
\par \tab Answer:  Rosalind _Carter_
\par 
\par Extras
\par 21.  Given the name of a National Park, identify the state in which it is located FTPE.
\par 1.  Bryce Canyon
\par UTAH
\par 2.  Isle Royale
\par MICHIGAN
\par 3.  Acadia
\par MAINE
\par }}