{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f224\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f225\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f227\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f228\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f229\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f236\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f237\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f239\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f240\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f241\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title High School Packet #3}{\author Jason Hong}
{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min48}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min48}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords1917}{\nofchars10928}{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws13420}{\vern71}}
\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale110\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0 High School Packet #3
\par Compiled by Michael Starsinic, Ohio State
\par 
\par 1. He came to prominence as a leader of the 1894 Pullman strike, and ran five times as the Socialist party candidate for President.  FTP, name this politician who won nearly a million votes in 1920 despite campaigning from jail.
\par \tab Answer:  Eugene V. _Debs_
\par 
\par 2
. Roh Tae Woo and Chun Doo Hwan, former presidents of South Korea, were both recently arrested on corruption charges in an anti-corruption program instituted by South Korea's current President.  FTP, name this man, the first elected civilian president in 
decades.
\par \tab Answer:   _Kim_ Young Sam
\par 
\par 3. The wife of the keeper of a wineshop in the Fauberg St. Antoine in Paris, she is instrumental in having Charles Darnay sentenced to the guillotine because of her vendetta against the noble Evremonde family.  FTP, na
me this revolutionary knitter from Charles Dicken's _A Tale of Two Cities_.
\par \tab Answer:  _Madame_ Therese _Defarge_
\par 
\par 4. Jolo, Basilan, Bohol, Samar, Panay, Cebu, Negros, Palawan, Leyte, Mindanao, and Luzon are some of the islands of, FTP, what Asian nation?
\par \tab Answer:   the _Philippines_
\par 
\par 5. These were introduced by John Napier in 1614, and a modified version based on 10 were introduced by Henry Briggs a few years later.  These greatly simplified hand calculations, by transforming multiplication into additio
n.  FTP, what is this mathematical function that can be either common or natural.
\par \tab Answer:   _logarithms_
\par 
\par 6. This holiday has its origins in gifts given to servants and service providers such as mail carriers and trash collectors on the first working da
y after Christmas.  FTP, what is this holiday celebrated in England and the British Commonwealth on December 26.
\par \tab Answer:   _Boxing Day_
\par 
\par 7. The language of this culture is thought to be the last survivor of the indiginous languages of Western Europe before the arrival of Indo-European.  FTP, name this fiercely independent people of northern Spain.
\par \tab Answer:  _Basques_
\par 
\par 8. On Thursday, April 11, this man shot a 9-under par 63.  Three days later, he shot himself in the foot, shooting a 6-over par 78 and losing a 6 shot lead.  FTP, name this Australian golfer who lost the Masters to Nick Faldo.
\par \tab Answer:  Greg _Norman_
\par 
\par 9. The square of the planet's period is proportional to the the cube of its mean distance from the sun.  The radius vector to a planet swe
eps out equal areas in equal time.  Planets move in elliptical orbits.  These are the laws of planetary motion discovered by what German astronomer.
\par \tab Answer:  Johannes _Kepler_ (Kepler's laws of motion; accept Kepler's Third Law during the first sentence)
\par 
\par 10. _The Great Train Robbery_, _Eaters of the Dead_, _Sphere_, _Rising Sun_, _Disclosure_ and _The Lost World_ are all novels by, FTP, what author of _Jurassic Park_.
\par \tab Answer:  Michael _Crichton_
\par 
\par 11.  This man explored the Orinoco River and the inter
ior of Guyana in 1595.  He was imprisoned in the Tower of London for nearly 15 years before he was executed in 1618.  FTP, name this English explorer who threw down his cloak for Queen Elizabeth to walk upon, and founded the failed colony of Roanoke.

\par \tab Answer:  Sir Walter _Raleigh_
\par 
\par 12. This man is being sued by the possible mugger he shot and paralyzed in 1984.  FTP, name this man who was tried and convicted of the 1984 shooting of four African-Americans youths who accosted him in the New York City subway.
\par \tab Answer:  Bernard _Goetz_
\par 
\par 13. He died at just 35, but during his short lifetime this composer wrote over 600 works, which are now indexed by their Koechel number.  FTP, name this man who composed the unfinished "Requiem Mass", the Jupiter symphony, an
d the operas "Don Giovanni", "The Magic Flute", and "The Marriage of Figaro".
\par \tab Answer:  _Mozart_
\par 
\par 14. Measuring 5 to 10 micrometers long, these cellular organelles have a smooth outer membrane and highly folded inner membrane, and are the only organelle 
known outiside of nuclei to contain DNA.  FTP, what are these organelles in which respiration occurs.
\par \tab Answer:  _mitochondria_
\par 
\par 15. This program called for a protectove tariff to promote industry, a national bank, and the construction of a large number of roads and canals.  FTP, name this nationalistic economic plan proposed by Henry Clay.
\par \tab Answer:  the _American System_
\par 
\par 16. "I aimed for the public's heart, and by accident I hit it in the stomach,"  so said this man, regarding his sensational expose revealing the conditions of the meat-packing industry.  FTP, name this muckraking author of _The Jungle_.
\par \tab Answer:  Upton _Sinclair_
\par 
\par 17. The son of Kish, he was generally successful in his military campaigns against the Philistines, but they finally defeated him at Mount Gilboa, and he comitted suicide.  FTP, name this man who was anointed by Samuel to be the first King of Israel.

\par \tab Answer:  _Saul_
\par 
\par 18. Produced in 1937 by Segre and Perrier by bombarding molybdenum with deuterons, they named it for the Gr
eek for "artificial".  It has not been found in terrestrial ores.  FTP, name this first artifically produced element, with atomic number 43 and symbol Tc.
\par \tab Answer:  _Technetium_
\par 
\par 19. It began with a Protestant revolt in Bohemia, but over its long course degenerated into a battle pitting France and Sweden against the Hapsburgs, but  fought on German soil.  FTP, name this war, which ended with the Peace of Westphalia in 1648.
\par \tab Answer:  _Thirty Years_ War
\par 
\par 20. In 1348, seven young women and three young men
 meet in a church in Florence, and decide to flee the city to escape the Black Death.  In the countryside, each tells 1 story a day for the next 10 days.  FTP, name this 14th century collection of tales written by Giovanni Boccaccio.
\par \tab Answer:  The _Decameron_
\par 
\par 21. Rites of Passage; 1200 Curfews; Strange Fire; Nomads + Indians + Saints; Swamp Ophelia; and a self titled album are all products of, FTP, what female duo from Georgia?
\par \tab Answer:  _Indigo Girls_
\par 
\par 22. On November 27, 1978, this man and San Franci
sco Mayor George Moscone were shot and killed by Dan White, who used the infamous "Twinkie defense" at his trial.  FTP, name this politician, who had been the first openly homosexual person elected to the San Francisco Board of Supervisors.
\par \tab Answer:  Harvey _Milk_
\par 
\par \page Bonuses
\par 
\par 1. Here's a bonus on something that even college players can't keep straight - gas laws.  FTPE, give the law given the description.
\par 1. With temperature constant, volume is inversely proportional to pressure.
\par \tab Answer:  _Boyle's_ Law
\par 2. With pressure constant, volume is directly proportional to temperature.
\par \tab Answer:  _Charles'_ Law
\par 3. The velocity of effusion of a gas is inversely proportional to the square root of its density.
\par \tab Answer:  _Graham's_ Law
\par 
\par 2. Given a year and the winning candidate, identify the major party loser in the following presidential elections.
\par 1. Harry Truman, 1948
\par \tab Answer:  Thomas _Dewey_
\par 2. Andrew Jackson, 1828
\par \tab Answer:  John _Q_uincy _Adams_
\par 3. Franklin Roosevelt, 1936
\par \tab Answer:  Alfred _Landon_
\par 
\par 3. 30-20-10 Name the author from works.
\par 30 - _Knight's Gambit_, _A Fable_
\par 20 - _Requiem for a Nun_, _Absalom, Absalom!_
\par 10 - _The Sound and the Fury_, _As I Lay Dying_
\par \tab Answer:  William _Faulkner_
\par 
\par 4. There has been a recent controversy over the title of Wo
rld's Tallest Building.  A new twin-towered skyscraper in a South-East Asian capital city is 1483 feet tall, 33 feet taller than the Sears Tower, despite being 22 stories shorter than the Sears Tower.  FTP, give the name of this new skyscraper, and the ci
ty and country in which it is located.
\par \tab Answer:  _Petronas Tower_, _Kuala Lumpur_, _Malaysia_
\par 
\par 5. "Planet Hollywood" made quite a splash in the world of theme restaurants when it opened.  FTPE, name any 3 of the 4 celebrity owners.
\par \tab Answer:  Bruce _Willis_, Demi _Moore_, Sylvester _Stallone_, Arnold _Schwarzeneggar_
\par 
\par 6. FTPE, name the phylum of the animal kingdom each of the following belongs to.
\par 1. sponges
\par \tab Answer:  _porifera_
\par 2. snails
\par \tab Answer:  _mollusca_ or _mollusks_
\par 3. earthworms
\par \tab Answer:  _annelida_ or _annelids_
\par 
\par 7. With the disintegration of Yugoslavia, the only two republics which remain united as Yugoslavia are, ironically, the only two republics who were independent countries prior to World War I.  FTPE, identify these two republics.
\par \tab Answer:  _Serbia_, _Montenegro_
\par And for a final 10 points, what country controlled Bosnia, Croatia, and Slovenia at the outbreak of World War I.
\par \tab Answer:  _Austria-Hungary_ (do not accept just Austria)
\par 
\par 8. Identify these foreign authors from works, all of whom have all won the Nobel Prize in Literature, FTPE.
\par 1. _100 Years of Solitude_
\par \tab Answer:  Gabriel _Garcia-Marquez_
\par 2. _The Stranger_
\par \tab Answer:  Albert _Camus_
\par 3. _The Magic Mountain_
\par \tab Answer:  Thomas _Mann_
\par 
\par 9. Which cities are the following US Service Academies in, FTPE?
\par 1. US Naval Academy
\par \tab Answer:  _Annapolis_, Maryland
\par 2. US Air Force Academy
\par \tab Answer:  _Colorado Springs_, Colorado
\par 3. US Coast Guard Academy
\par \tab Answer:  _New London_, Connecticut
\par 
\par 10. Identify the company from an advertising slogan, FFPE.
\par 1. "Your way, right away."
\par \tab Answer:  _Burger King_
\par 2. "Pizza!  Pizza!"
\par \tab Answer:  _Little Caesar's_
\par 3. "You'll love the way we fly."
\par \tab Answer:  _Delta_ Airlines
\par 4. "You'll love what we do fo you."
\par \tab Answer:  _Toyota_
\par 5. "It keeps going and going..."
\par \tab Answer:  _Energizer_
\par 6. "See what develops."
\par \tab Answer:  _Polaroid_
\par 
\par 11. Answer the following questions about the history of mathematics for the stated number of points.
\par 1. Much of the early part of the 18th century was spent in an acrimonious battle concerning who should be given credit for inventing calculus.  Name the two principle contenders, one English and one German, 5 for one, 15 for both.
\par \tab Answer:  Isaac _Newton_ and Gottfried Wilhelm _Leibniz_
\par 2. In the mid-1600's, a French mathematician 
wrote a note in a margin of a book that if a, b, c & n are integers, then a to the n plus b to the n equals c to the n does not have a solution for n greater than 2, and claimed he had a proof but did not give it.  In 1993, a mathematician at Princeton an
nounced he finally had a proof.  For 5 points for 1 or 15 for both, name these two mathematicians.
\par \tab Answer:  Pierre de _Fermat_, Andrew _Wiles_
\par 
\par 12. Only six men have held the post of Secretary General of the United Nations.  Identify these 3 Secretaries General from their country and the year they took office, FTPE.
\par 1. Sweden, 1953
\par \tab Answer:  Dag _Hammarskjold_
\par 2. Austria, 1972
\par \tab Answer:  Kurt _Waldheim_
\par 3. Peru, 1982
\par \tab Answer:  Javier _Perez de Cuellar_
\par 
\par 13. Give the Shakespearean play which contains the following quotes.
\par 1. "O! beware my lord, of jealousy;
\par     It is the green-ey'd monster"
\par \tab Answer:  _Othello_
\par 2. "Lord, what fools these mortals be!"
\par \tab Answer:  _A Midsummer Night's Dream_
\par 3. "The play's the thing
\par     Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king."
\par \tab Answer:  _Hamlet_
\par 
\par 14. Who were the architects of the following buildings?  Name 'em FTPE.
\par 1. St. Paul's Cathedral, London
\par \tab Answer:  Sir Christopher _Wren_
\par 2. Guggenheim Museum, New York
\par \tab Answer:  Frank Lloyd _Wright_
\par 3. the glass pyramid at the Louvre
\par \tab Answer:  I.M. _Pei_
\par 
\par 15. For five points per part, give the name of the song and the artist who originally perfored it given the first line of the song.
\par 1. "It's 9:00 on a Saturday
\par     The regular crowd shuffles in"
\par \tab Answer:  "_Piano Man_", Billy _Joel_
\par 2. "Hello darkness my old friend"
\par \tab Answer:  "_Sounds of Silence_", Paul _Simon_ and Art _Garfunkel_
\par 3. "Memories light the corners of my mind
\par     Misty water-colored memories of..."
\par \tab Answer:  "The Way We Were", Barbra _Streisand_
\par 
\par 16. Time for human anatomy.  Give the scientific name for these common body parts, FTPE.
\par 1. kneecap
\par \tab Answer:  _patella_
\par 2. collarbone
\par \tab Answer:  _clavicle_
\par 3. eardrum
\par \tab Answer:  _tympanic membrane_ or _tympanum_
\par 
\par 17. Give the royal house of the following British monarchs, for 10 points each.
\par 1. George III
\par \tab Answer:  House of _Hanover_
\par 2. James I
\par \tab Answer:  House of _Stuart_
\par 3. Richard III
\par \tab Answer:  House of _York_
\par 
\par 18. Give the capitals of the following Latin American countries, for 5 points each & a 5 point bonus for all 5.
\par 1. Uruguay
\par \tab Answer:  _Montevideo_
\par 2. Honduras
\par \tab Answer:  _Tegucigalpa_
\par 3. Guatemala
\par \tab Answer:  _Guatemala City_
\par 4. Chile
\par \tab Answer:  _Santiago_
\par 5. Costa Rica
\par \tab Answer:  _San Jose_
\par 6.  Suriname
\par \tab Answer:  _Paramaribo_
\par 
\par 19. 1.  For 5 points each, name the five books of James Fenimore Cooper's "Leatherstocking Tales".
\par \tab Answer:  _The Pioneers_, _The Last of the Mohicans_, _The Prairie_, _The Pathfinder_, _The Deerslayer_
\par 2.  For a final five points, what is the English name of the central character in all five novels?
\par Natty _Bumppo_
\par 
\par 20. For five points each, name any 6 of the 7 women's colleges traditionally known as the Seven Sisters.
\par \tab Answer:  _Mount Holyoke_, _Smith_, _Vassar_, _Wellesley_, _Barnard_, _Bryn Mawr_, _Radcliffe_
\par 
\par 21. State name trivia, part 2!  Most US states are known officially simply as the "State of <blank>", but four are officially known as the "Commonwealth of <blank>".  Name these "commonwealths", FFPE and a 10 point bonus for all four.
\par \tab Answer:  _Kentucky_, _Massachusetts_, _Virginia_, _Pennsylvania_
\par }}