{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f224\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f225\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f227\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f228\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f229\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f236\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f237\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f239\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f240\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f241\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title High School Packet #4}{\author Jason Hong}
{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min45}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min45}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords1979}{\nofchars11283}{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws13856}{\vern71}}
\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale110\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0 High School Packet #4
\par Compiled by: Michael Starsinic, Ohio State
\par 
\par 1. The last English monarch to die in battle, he had his two nephews murdered in the Tower of London to insure his succession to the throne.  FTP, name this subject of a Shakespearean history who ruled from 1483 to 1485 and was defeated by Henry Tud
or & killed at the battle of Bosworth Field.
\par - _Richard III_
\par 
\par 2. Until 1989, this planet was only known to have two moons.  In that year, Voyager II discovered six more, plus a group of three rings.  FTP, name this planet, first observed by Johann Galle in 1846 and currently the furthest planet from the sun.
\par - _Neptune_
\par 
\par 3. Soothsayers predicted this son of Priam would bring disaster, and he was given to shepherds to expose, but they spared his life.  In the Trojan War, he was killed by Philoctetes, but not before killing Achilles.  FTP, name this 
Trojan who, by judging Aphrodite the fairest, received Helen as his reward.
\par - _Paris_
\par 
\par 4. It began in 1926 when Dallas's Southland Ice Company decided to supplement slow winter ice sales with groceries, and by 1963, with thousands of stores across the country, some stores began operating 24 hours a day.  FTP, identify 
this ubiquitous store, the world's original convenience store.
\par - _7-Eleven_
\par 
\par 5. This 1965 science fiction novel spawned 5 sequels, describing "The God-Emperor of...", "The Heretics of...", and "The Children of.." the title planet, also known as Arrakis.  FTP, name this Frank Herbert novel, made into a 
bad 1984 movie starring Sting.
\par - _Dune_
\par 
\par 6. Each tossup in this tournament has the abbreviation "FTP" in it, meaning "for ten points".  However, on the internet, what, FTP, does "FTP" stand for?
\par - _file transfer protocol_
\par 
\par 7. The assassination of James Garfield by Charles Guiteau, a disgruntled office seeker, forced Congress to take steps to reform the Spoils System.  FTP, name the bill passed in 1883 which established competitive exams for some federal 
jobs and created the Civil Service Commission.
\par - _Pendleton_ Act
\par 
\par 8. Born in 1483 in Urbino, some of his better known religious paintings include "Madonna with the Goldfinch" and the "Alba Madonna".  In 1508, he was commissioned to decorate the Vatican Palace, and it is in the Palace's Stanza 
della Segnatura where his masterpiece resides.  FTP, name this artist of "The School of Athens".
\par - _Raphael_ (Raffaello Santi)
\par 
\par 9. The name of this famous dish is actually a contraction of the words "for her" in Spanish.  FTP, name this Spanish dish containing vegetables, seafood & chicken, and flavored with saffron.
\par - _paella_
\par 
\par 10. He held the position of Latin secretary to Oliver Cromwell, and the grueling work cost him his eyesight.  His works include the elegy "Lysidas", the dramatic poem "Samson Agonistes", and the political tract "Aeropagitica".  FTP, name this Engli
sh author of _Paradise Lost_.
\par - John _Milton_
\par 
\par 11. The last Secretary of this Cabinet department was Kennth C. Royall. Previous Secretaries included William Howard Taft, Robert Lincoln, Jefferson Davis, Edwin Stanton, and the first, Henry Knox.  FTP, name this Cabinet 
department which became a branch of the Department of Defense in 1947.
\par - Department of _War_ (or War Department)
\par 
\par 12. This Swedish biologist became interested in classification schemes after studying the sexual organs of flowers, and he classified all known plant species on that basis.  FTP, identify this scientist who first called humans "Homo 
sapiens" and introduced the current system of binomial nomenclature.
\par - Carolus _Linnaeus_ (or Carl von Linne)
\par 
\par 13. This city in the Hejaz is located 220 miles north of Mecca.  Originally called Yathrib, it contains the tomb of Mohammed and is one of the holiest cities of Islam.  FTP, name this city to which Mohammed fled in 622 in the Hegira.
\par - _Medina_
\par 
\par 14. London in 1851; Paris in 1889; Chicago in 1893; Buffalo in 1901; St. Louis in 1904; Chicago again in 1933-34; New York in 1939-40; Seattle in 1962; New York again in 1964-65; Montreal in 1967; Spokane in 1974; and Knoxville in 1982. 
These were the sites and dates of, FTP, what type of international exposition?
\par - _World's Fair_
\par 
\par 15. Composed in 1792 by Claude Roget de Lisle, it was originally titled "Song of War for the Army of the Rhine".  Soldiers singing it entered Paris later that year, and it became wildly popular.  FTP, name this song, the French national anthem.
\par - _La Marseillaise_
\par 
\par 16. The historian Flavius Josephus says this man was a harsh administrator, and he was recalled to Rome after his behavior provoked a riot.  FTP, identify this procurator of Judea from 26 to 36 AD who presided over the trial of Jesus.
\par - Pontius _Pilate_
\par 
\par 17. Overcoming a poor track record as a singles skater and the deaths of his father, brother & two coaches, he improbably won this year's US Men's figure skating title and took the bronze medal at the World Championships.  FTP, name 
this skater, the former pairs partner of Kristi Yamaguchi.
\par - Rudy _Galindo_
\par 
\par 18. Composed of 100 cantos written in terza rima, it begins with the poet lost in the Wood of Error on Good Friday, 1300.  It then follows the poet's travels through the afterlife, led by Vergil and Beatrice.  FTP, identify this epic poem 
by Dante Alighieri.
\par - The _Divine Comedy_
\par 
\par 19. Developed at Bell Labs in 1948, this electronic device can be used as an amplifier, rectifier, or switch.  FTP, identify this device which revolutionized electronic circuits by replacing the vacuum tube.
\par - _transistor_
\par 
\par 20. An ace fighter pilot in World War I, he joined the Nazis in 1922, and founded the Gestapo in 1933.  He directed the entire German economy before 1943 when he was stripped of power, partly because of his morphine addiction.  FTP, 
name this Nazi who headed the German Luftwaffe.
\par - Hermann _Goering_
\par 
\par 21. In this Asian nation of approximately 65 million, the use of French as an administrative language has been in steady decline since the end of colonial rule.  FTP, identify this nation, united in 1976 after a thirty years of civil 
war and struggles with France and the United States.
\par - _Vietnam_
\par 
\par 22. He was the first President of the United STates to have been an Eagle Scout and the first to visit Japan while in office.  His dog, a golden retriever, was named Liberty.  FTP name this man, the 38th President of the US.
\par - Gerald _Ford_
\par \page  }{\f0 1. Give the Shakespearean play which contains the following quotes.
\par a. "Lay on, MacDuff..."
\par - _Macbeth_ (also accept _The Scottish Play_ if the team is overly}{\f0  }{\f0 superstitious)
\par b. "This was the noblest Roman of them all."
\par - _A Midsummer Night's Dream_
\par c. "Once more into the breach, dear friends, once more"
\par - _Henry V_
\par 
\par 2.  Identify these former leaders of the Soviet Union from a brief}{\f0  }{\f0 description.
\par 1)  Noteworthy events during his administration included the signing of the}{\f0  }{\f0 SALT I agreement and the invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968.
\par }{\f0 - }{\f0 Leonid BREZHNEV
\par 2)  He was the Soviet ambassador to Hungary during the 1956 uprising.  He}{\f0  }{\f0 served as general secretary of the Soviet communist party from late 1982 until}{\f0  }{\f0 February of 1984.
\par }{\f0 - }{\f0 Yuri ANDROPOV
\par 3)  Born Vladimir Ilich Ulionov, his elder brother was arrested and hanged for}{\f0  }{\f0 plotting to murder Czar Alexander III.
\par }{\f0 - }{\f0 V. I. LENIN
\par 
\par 3. Identify these Canadian provinces & territories from clues FTP, or from}{\f0  }{\f0 major cities for five.
\par 10 - It contains Banff and Wood Buffalo National Parks.
\par 5 - Edmonton & Calgary
\par - _Alberta_
\par 10 - It contains the French colonial fortress of Louisbourg and was the}{\f0  }{\f0 original home of the Acadians whom the British forcibly evicted.
\par 5 - Halifax
\par - _Nova Scotia_
\par 10 - It controls all the islands in Ungava Bay, James Bay, and Hudson Bay.
\par 5 - Yellowknife
\par - _Northwest Territories_
\par 
\par 4. Answer the following related questions about plants FTPE.
\par a. What are the pores in the epidermis of leaves and stems which aids in gas}{\f0  }{\f0 exchange.
\par - _stoma_ or _stomata_
\par b. What are the cells on each side of the stomata which controls their opening}{\f0  }{\f0 and closing.
\par - _guard_ cells
\par c. And finally, what is the term for the evaporation of water from plants}{\f0  }{\f0 which mainly occurs through the stomata.
\par - _transpiration_
\par 
\par 5. Major League Soccer began again in the US on April 6, with team names that
\par are, well, interesting.  Given the city, supply the team nickname FFPE.
\par a. Columbus                     }{\f0 \tab \tab }{\f0 - _Crew_
\par b. Kansas City          }{\f0 \tab \tab }{\f0 - _Wiz_
\par c. Washington D.C.      }{\f0 \tab \tab }{\f0 - _United_
\par d. San Jose                     }{\f0 \tab \tab }{\f0 - _Clash_
\par e. Dallas                       }{\f0 \tab \tab }{\f0 - _Burn_
\par f. Tampa Bay            }{\f0 \tab \tab }{\f0 - _Mutiny_
\par 
\par 6. This organzization, abbreviated IUPAC, has the unenviable task of sorting}{\f0  }{\f0 out the who discovered new elements and deciding what they should be named.}{\f0  }{\f0 FFP for each word & a 5 point bonus for all 5, what does IUPAC stand for?

\par - _International_ _Union_ of _Pure_ and _Applied_ _Chemistry_
\par }\pard \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 
\par }\pard \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 7.  Identify the authors of the following works of 20th-Century American}{\f0  }{\f0 literature FTPE.
\par 1)  _The Secret Sharer_, _Lord Jim_
\par Joseph CONRAD
\par 2)  _The Naked and the Dead_, _The Executioner's Song_, _Armies of the Night_
\par Norman MAILER
\par 3)  _In Cold Blood_, _Breakfast at Tiffany's_
\par Truman CAPOTE
\par 
\par 8.  Answer the following questions about the Peloponnesian War FTPE.
\par 1)  The events of the Peloponnesian War were recounted by what Greek}{\f0  }{\f0 historian?
\par THUCYDIDES
\par 2)  Sparta and its allies formed this alliance, which went to war with Athens}{\f0  }{\f0 due to fear of growing Athenian power.
\par PELOPONNESIAN LEAGUE
\par 3)  The Peloponnesian League was established to counter what alliance between
\par Athens and its subject cities?
\par DELIAN LEAGUE
\par 
\par 9.  Identify the famous newspapermen being described FTPE.
\par 1)  By 1927 he controlled an empire of 25 newspapers including the _New York}{\f0  }{\f0 Daily Mirror_, the _New York Journal-American_, and the _Los Angeles}{\f0  }{\f0 Examiner_.
\par William Randolph HEARST
\par 2)  Among the most famous papers in his publishing empire were the _New York}{\f0  }{\f0 Sun_ and the _St. Louis Evening Dispatch_.
\par Joseph PULITZER
\par 3)  Co-founder of Baltimore's _The American Mercury_ and famous for his}{\f0  }{\f0 sardonic quips, he once defined Puritanism as, "The haunting fear that}{\f0  }{\f0 someone, somewhere, may be happy."
\par H. L. MENCKEN
\par 
\par 10.  Given a hit song and artist from the past twelve years, identify the}{\f0  }{\f0 ALBUM on which that song first appeared FFPE, with a 5-point bonus for}{\f0  }{\f0 correctly identifying all five.
\par 1)  Blues Traveller, "Hook"
\par FOUR
\par 2)  Alanis Morissette, "Ironic"
\par JAGGED LITTLE PILL
\par 3)  Green Day, "Geek Stink Breath"
\par INSOMNIAC
\par 4)  Joan Osborne, "One of Us"
\par RELISH
\par 5)  Hootie and the Blowfish, "Hold My Hand"
\par CRACKED REAR VIEW
\par 
\par 11.  Acronyms are very popular on the Intenet.  Given an internet acronym,}{\f0  }{\f0 give the full name of the abbreviation for the stated number of points.
\par 5 pt. -- WWW
\par WORLD WIDE WEB
\par 10 pt. -- FAQ
\par FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
\par 15 pt. -- HTML
\par HYPERTEXT MARKUP LANGUAGE
\par 
\par 12. FTPE, give the author who created the following the following recurring}{\f0  }{\f0 literary characters.
\par a. the narrator Marlow  }{\f0 \tab \tab }{\f0 - Joseph _Conrad_
\par b. Jack Ryan            }{\f0 \tab \tab }{\f0 - Tom _Clancy_
\par c. Mike Hammer          }{\f0 \tab \tab }{\f0 - Mickey _Spillane_
\par 
\par 13. 30-20-10 Identify the year in which all the following events occurred.
\par 30 - Apollo 9 becomes the first manned spacecraft to orbit the moon; US Naval
\par ship "Pueblo" captured by North Korea
\par 20 - Russian troops crush the "Prague Spring" movement in Czechoslovakia
\par 10 - Martin Luther King, Jr. & Robert Kennedy assassinated.
\par - _1968_
\par 
\par 14.  The character of James Bond, first created by British ex-secret agent Ian}{\f0  }{\f0 Fleming, has long been very popular in both literature and cinema.  FFPE,}{\f0  }{\f0 identify the six actors who have portrayed James Bond on the silver screen.

\par - Sean CONNERY, George LAZENBY, Roger MOORE, Timothy DALTON, Pierce BROSNAN,}{\f0  }{\f0 David NIVEN
\par (Reader's note:  Niven portrayed James Bond in the Woody Allen-directed spoof}{\f0  }{\f0 "Casino Royale")
\par 
\par 15.  Given a clue, identify the U.S. state being described for 30 points after}{\f0  }{\f0 the first clue, 20 points after the second, or 10 points if you need all}{\f0  }{\f0 three.
\par 30 pt. -- Home of Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park
\par 20 pt. -- Home of the Martin Luther King, Jr. National Historic Site
\par 10 pt. -- Home of Stone Mountain and the Andersonville National Historic Site
\par - GEORGIA
\par 
\par 16. FFPE, identify the inventor of the following inventions.
\par a. stock ticker         }{\f0 \tab }{\f0 - Thomas Alva _Edison_
\par b. dynamite                     }{\f0 \tab }{\f0 - Alfred _Nobel_
\par c. Polaroid camera      }{\f0 \tab }{\f0 - Edwin _Land_
\par d. bifocal lenses               }{\f0 \tab }{\f0 - Benjamin _Franklin_
\par e. reaper                       }{\f0 \tab }{\f0 - Cyrus _McCormick_
\par f. safety razor         }{\f0 \tab }{\f0 - King _Gillette_
\par 
\par 17. 30-20-10 Identify the author from works.
\par 30 - _It Can't Happen Here_, _Dodsworth_
\par 20 - _Elmer Gantry_, _Babbitt_
\par 10 - _Arrowsmith_, _Main Street_
\par - Sinclair _Lewis_
\par 
\par 18. Given a top 10 song from the 1980's, name the artist or group that}{\f0  }{\f0 recorded it, 5 points each.
\par a. "Only in My Dreams"          }{\f0 \tab }{\f0 - Debbie _Gibson_
\par b. "Celebration"                        }{\f0 \tab }{\f0 - _Kool & the Gang_
\par c. "P.Y.T."                             }{\f0 \tab }{\f0 - Michael _Jackson_
\par d. "The Final Countdown"        }{\f0 \tab }{\f0 - _Europe_
\par e. "Come On Eileen"             }{\f0 \tab }{\f0 - _Dexy's Midnight Runners_
\par f. "You Got it All"             }{\f0 \tab \tab }{\f0 - The _Jets_
\par 
\par 19.  Let's check and see how well you were paying attention in your French}{\f0  }{\f0 classes.  Given the name of a color in English, identify its French equivalent}{\f0  }{\f0 FFPE, with a 5-pt. bonus for correctly identifying all five.
\par 1)  White
\par BLANCHE
\par 2)  Purple
\par POURPRE
\par 3)  Green
\par VERT
\par 4)  Yellow
\par JAUNE
\par 5)  Red
\par ROUGE
\par 
\par 20. Give the royal house of the following British monarchs, FTPE.
\par a. Henry II             }{\f0 \tab }{\f0 - Plantagenet
\par b. Henry V              }{\f0 \tab }{\f0 - Lancaster
\par c. Henry VIII   }{\f0 \tab \tab }{\f0 - Tudor
\par }{\f0 
\par }}