{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times;}
{\f224\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f225\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f227\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f228\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f229\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}}{\info{\title Tournament Round 1}
{\author David Levinson}{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min58}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min58}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords1540}{\nofchars8780}{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws10782}{\vern71}}
\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 \ftnbj\aendnotes\hyphhotz0\ftnnrlc\aftnnar\sprstsp\otblrul\brkfrm\sprstsm\truncex\nolead\msmcap\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale110\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\f0\fs20 Tournament Round 1.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid 
1. He was born in Cape May, NJ on Sept. 5, 1927. He failed kindergarten. He attended Princeton and barely made the basketball team. He almost received a PhD. in economics from Harvard. In 1975 he was given the Presidency of the Federal
 Reserve Bank of NY and in 1979, he became Chairman of the Federall Reserve. Who? /Paul Volcker/
\par \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f0\fs20 2. In nuclear physics, how many sheds are in a barn? /10 ~ -24/
\par 
\par 3. Valentinian's sister Grata offered herself to him for marriage, but he demanded half of the Western Empire as dowry. He was turned down and invaded Gaul. He was defeated and invaded Northern Italy. Because of the pleas of Pope Leo I or a lack of suppli
es he didn't take Rome. Name this scourge of God who died in 453. /Attilla The Hun/
\par 
\par 4. He was born April 16, 1889 and discovered in 1913. Who's movies include: Easy Street, Shoulder Arms, The Kid, The Gold Rush, City Lights, and Modern Times? /Charlie Chaplin/
\par 
\par 5. Its most widely circulated newspaper has been dubbed McPaper, and it has in the past two years purchased newspapers in DesMoines, Detroit, and Louisville. What is this newspaper company founded in Rochester? /Gannett/
\par 
\par 6. Born in Ontario, Canada on Oct. 15, 1908, he received degrees from the Universities of Toronto and California-Berkeley
. He taught at Harvard and Princeton, and in the early forties he gained American citizenship. In 1943 he served at Fortune Magazine as an editor. He was ambassador to India from 1961- 63. Who is the author of "The Affluent Society"? /John Kenneth Galbrai
th/
\par 
\par 7. He was born at San Marcos Nicaragua, on Feb. 1, 1896, the son of a coffee planter. He was nicknamed Tacho and earned a degree from the Pierce School of Business Administration in Philadelphia. He married into a political family and by 1933 was head 
of the National Guard. In 1937 he was elected president and served until 1947 and again from 1950-55. In 1956 he was assasinated by Rigoberto Lopez-Perez. Who? /Anastasio Somoza I/
\par 
\par 8. Formerly called th High Commission Territory of Basutoland, it achieved independence from Great Britain in 1966. Name this country with a capital at Maseru. /Lesotho/
\par 
\par 9. Editor of Lark Magazine from 1895-97, he wrote two famous quattrains. The first was:       "I never saw a purple cow        I never hope to see one        B
ut I can tell you anyhow        I'd rather see then be one" His sequel was nastier:       "Ah, yes I wrote the 'Purple Cow'        I'm sorry now I wrote it        But I can tell you anyhow        I'll kill you if you quote it" 
Who wrote these two quattrains?  /Gelett Burgess/
\par 
\par 10. Il Duce was Benito Mussolini, but what nickname was given to Genealissimo Francisco Franco? /El Caudillo/
\par 
\par 11. He made Incitatus a Senator, which was notable since he had only been a horse before. His name means "Little Boots". Who was the Emporer of Rome from 37 - 41 AD?  /Caligula/
\par 
\par 12. In 1647 John Fletcher wrote a sequel to this play entitled "The Woman's Prize (or The Tamer Tamed)", Two other remakes of note are "Kiss me Kate" and "Catherine and Petruchio". What play by whom were these taken from?  /The Taming of the Shrew by Will
iam Shakespeare/
\par 
\par 13. It is a proposition that seems logically sound, but leads to a contradiction or an absurdity, such as raising taxes helps to balance the budget. What is it? /Paradox/
\par 
\par 14. Edmund Wilson said it represented the second assasination of Abraham Lincoln. Who wrote this 6 volume Pulitzer winning biography of our 16th President? /Carl Sandburg/
\par 
\par 15. This Congressman often asks "Will it play in Peoria", because that is his home district. Who is the current House Minority Leader?  /Robert Michel/
\par 
\par 16. It is the story of man and his Coke Bottle. It stars Xi (Ki), an African Bushman and is about his adventures on his journey to the end of the world in Southern Africa. What is this movie? /The Gods Must Be Crazy/
\par 
\par 17. Its state slogan might be "Eat Cheese or Die", as that was suggested for its license plates. What is this state, America's Dairyland?  /Wisconsin/
\par 
\par 18. The first of its treaties settled a war that sounded like it was fought by the Punk group DEVO, the War of Devolution. The second treaty settled the War of Austrian Succession and King George's War in 1748. What is either the French or German name of 
this city? /Aachen or Aix la Chappelle/
\par 
\par 19. He was friends with John Colet and Thomas More. Colet revealed to him his vocation, to rejuvenate theology by basing it on accurate documents, the Greek Originals. Who wrote "Adagia", and "Endurion"? /Desiderius Erasmus/
\par 
\par 20. To deal with their problem, they run with an odd kind of movement as if they had been constructed by someone very clever in Switzerland. They have this problem: they need to find their food in the sand, which a wave has just washed over, but they can'
t bear to get their feet wet. What is this bird?  /Sandpiper/
\par 
\par 21. Though its name sounds like a Coca-Cola slogan, this play by Tom Stoppard won the 1984 Tony Award for best play. Name this drama originally starring Jeremy Irons and Glenn Close. /The Real Thing/
\par \page Bonuses:
\par 1. For five points each. Who discovered vaccines for the following diseases: 
\par a) Measles             /Enders and Peebles/ 
\par b) Polio               /Salk and Sabin/ 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f0\fs20 c) Rabies              /Pasteur/ 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f0\fs20 d) Smallpox            /Jenner/ 
\par e) Thyphus             /Micolle/
\par 
\par 2. The Whites and the Reds were factions in early 20th century Russia, but FTP each, where were the following factions: 
\par a) Blues and Greens in the 6th century         /The Byzantine Empire/ 
\par b) Barnburners and Locofocos in the 19th century? /New York/
\par 
\par 3. There have been many Triple Alliances. Given the year, for five points each, give the members:
\par  a) 1668 v. France      /England Holland Sweden/ 
\par b) 1717                /England Holland France/ 
\par c) 1865 v. Paraguay    /Brazil Argentina Uruguay/ 
\par d) 1879                /Austria-Hungary, Germany, Italy/
\par 
\par 4. For five points each, in what cities would you find the following areas of urban renewal: 
\par a) Golden Triangle                      /Pittsburgh/ 
\par b) Battery Park                         /New York/ 
\par c) The Inner Harbor                     /Baltimore/ 
\par d) Faneuil Hall and Quincy Market       /Boston/ 
\par e) Ghiradelli Square                    /San Francisco/
\par 
\par 5. 30-20-10 Bonus 
\par a)  He became an outlaw, and then an Indian fighter, it is said he invented the six-gun and the lasso and taught cowboys to rope 
\par b) He was born in the early 1800s, abandoned as an infant, he was raised by Coyotes 
\par c) He dug the Rio Grande, on a bet he rode an Oklahoma cyclon bareback. He died from drinking whiskey laced with barbed wire and fish hooks. Who? /Pecos Bill/
\par 
\par 6. Many US border towns have twin cities in Mexico or Canada. For five points each, given the US city, give its twin: 
\par a) Detroit             /Windsor/ 
\par b) San Diego           /Tijuana/ 
\par c) El Paso             /Ciudad Juarez/ 
\par d) Laredo              /Nuevo Laredo/ 
\par e) Brownsville         /Matamoros/
\par 
\par 7. Two national capitals are named after US Presidents. For 20 points, all or nothing, name both. /Monrovia, Washington/
\par 
\par 8. For five points each and 15 additional points for all three, who published the following abolitionist newspapers: 
\par a) The Liberator                               /William Lloyd Garrison/ 
\par b) The North Star                              /Frederick Douglass/ 
\par c) The Genius of Universal Emancipation        /Benjamin Lundy/
\par 
\par 9. 1956 was a major year for European crisis, for 5 points each who were the Premier or Prime Minister of: 
\par a) England during the Suez crisis              /Sir Anthony Eden/ 
\par b) France during the Suez crisis               /Mollet/ 
\par c) Hungary during the Revolution               /Imre Nagy/ 
\par d) USSR as it mercilessly crushed Hungary     /Bulganin/
\par 
\par 10. In what cities are the following stadiums for 5 points each: 
\par a) Robert F Kennedy                            /Washington DC/ 
\par b) John F Kennedy                              /Philadelphia/ 
\par c) Kingdome                                    /Seattle/ 
\par d) Hubert  Humphrey Metrodome                  /Minneapolis-St.Paul/
\par 
\par 11. FTP about what man was the refrain "In your heart you know he might" a response to his "In your heart you know he's right"?  /Barry Goldwater/
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f0\fs20     F an additional TP about who was it said "In his heart he lusts your wife", because of a Playboy interview he gave?  /Jimmy Carter/
\par 
\par 12. In England, attorneys are often called by different names (FTP each)  
\par a) what is the name for a legal advisor? /solicitor/  
\par b) what is the name for a trial lawyer?  /barrister/
\par 
\par 13. 30-20-10 Structure:  
\par a) It is located on Riverside Drive along the Hudson in NYC, it is a 50 meter high pyramid of classical architecture.  
\par b) If you tell me the last name of the people buried there, you will name the structure.  
\par c) The masaleum is dedicated to a Civil War General and a later politician./Grant's Tomb (Mr. and Mrs. Grant buried there)/
\par 
\par 14. New York has had many subway series. For five points give the cities and an additional 5 points for the years, tell me what two cities have also hosted all the games of a  World Series. 
\par /St. Louis 1944, Chicago 1906/
\par 
\par 15. I will give a pattern. For twenty points tell me the last blank:Illinois, Massachusetts, Texas, Minnesota, South Dakota, Georgia, Georgia, Minnesota, Massachusetts, BLANK. What should have gone in the blank?  /Arkansas- (home of recent Democratic Pres
idential nominees)/
\par 
\par 16. 
\par a)In "A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man" and "Ulysses", FTP who is the fictional counterpoint to James Joyce? /Stephen Dedalus/    
\par b) In "Ulysses", FTP who is his father figure? /Leopold Bloom/
\par 
\par 17. 
\par a) FTP Of what drug is the formula: C(17) H(21) O(4) N? /Cocaine/    
\par b) FTP What potent version of this drug allegedly killed a University of Maryland Basketball star this year? /Crack/    
\par c) FTP Who was that Basketball star? /Len Bias/
\par 
\par 18. 30-20-10   
\par  a) His first and second names happen to be the first and last names of a Secretary of War under Polk.    
\par b) He was a representative from 1853-55, but was most famous for the reason he died in Ludlow Street Jail.    
\par c) Who was this boss of New York City? 
\par 
\par /William Marcy Tweed/
\par 
\par 19. Habib ben Ali Bourguiba, was of course the first President of Tunisia, FTP each, who was the first President of:    
\par a) Kenya            /(Joseph?)Kenyatta/    
\par b) Turkey           /(Mustafa Kemal)Ataturk/
\par 
\par 20. Remember the Alamo, FTP each answer these questions about it:    
\par a) Who was the victorious Mexican General?          /Santa Anna/    
\par b) What battle six weeks later did Santa Anna lose? /San Jacinto/    
\par c) What two Americans fought for control at the Alamo? /William Travis and Jim Bowie/
\par }}