{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times;}
{\f224\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f225\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f227\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f228\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f229\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}}{\info{\title Tournament Round II by David M}{\author David Levinson}{\operator Jason Hong}
{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min57}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min57}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords1651}{\nofchars9415}{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws11562}{\vern71}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 
\ftnbj\aendnotes\hyphhotz0\ftnnrlc\aftnnar\sprstsp\otblrul\brkfrm\sprstsm\truncex\nolead\msmcap\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale110\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {Tournament Round II by David M. Levinson and Albert Whited
\par composed on September 1, 1986
\par (DML 202-204)
\par 
\par TOSS UPS
\par 
\par 1. Guerrilas of the movement M-19 are active here, creating a civil war dubbed La Violencia. In 1819 Simon Bolivar became President here. With what country did the United States sign the unratified Hay-Herran treaty?
\par  /Colombia/
\par 
\par 2. In which of Plato's dialogues did he propose the ancient city of Atlantis?
\par  /Timaeus/
\par 
\par 3. During an era of Spanish exploration, he conquered Puerto Rico. He sighted Florida and was given a patent from the Spanish Crown to colonize Florida in 1521. Who settled at Charlotte Harbor, was wounded in an attack by unfriendly natives, and returned 
to die in Cuba?
\par  /Ponce de Leon/
\par 
\par 4. In which of Jack Johnson's challengers was the "Great White Hope" finally realized?
\par  /Jess Willard/
\par 
\par 5. Born near Winnfield, Louisiana in 1892, he was a travelling salesman before studying enough to pass the bar exam in 1915. As a public service commissioner, he attacked the Standard Oil Company, in this way launching his political career. Who was this L
ouisiana Governor and Senator, shot by Carl Weiss in 1935? 
\par  /Huey P. Long/
\par 
\par 6. He graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 
1858 and served in the Civil War. A Commodore by 1896, the rank of Admiral was reactivated for his benefit, the post had only been assigned to two others. Serving as President of the General Board of the Navy until his death in 1915, who was this victor a
t Manilla Bay? 
\par  /George Dewey/
\par 
\par 7. He succeeded his father, Louis VIII, in 1226, but as he was only of age 11, his mother, Blanche of Castille, acted as regent. In 1248 he led a crusade, but was taken prisoner in Egypt by the Moslems. Who was this only sainted King of France?
\par  /Louis IX/
\par 
\par 8. Tied for ninth place on the all-time home run list with Ted Williams at 521, his eighteen grand slams puts him second only to Lou Gehrig's twenty-three. Name this former San Francisco Giant, the only player inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 19
86.
\par  /Willie McCovey/
\par 
\par 9. Born in Vienna in 1882, he moved to New York in 1894, proceeding to graduate from City College of New York and Harvard with law degrees. He taught at Harvard, represented Zionists at Versailles, an
d wrote. In 1939 he was appointed to the United States Supreme Court. He served until 1962 and generally sided with Hugo Black and William Douglas. Who is this liberal? 
\par /Felix Frankfurter/
\par 
\par 10. A great proponent of the Swedish mystic, Emanuel Swedenborg, he spread the gospel throughout the Northwest Territory during the early 19th Century. Who was this precursor of the Arbor Day Movement?
\par  /John Chapman (Appleseed)/
\par 
\par 11. A Swiss-American auto racer, in 1910 at the age of 32, he teamed up with the former he
ad of General Motors, Billy Durant, to found an auto company. It first produced cars in New York, now it produces them everywhere. The company, which bears his name, enabled Durant to take over General Motors. Who is this man, whose car was popular primar
ily because it came in a color other than black? 
\par  /Louis Chevrolet/
\par 
\par 12. You will have the right stuff if you tell me who wrote "Kandy Kolered Tangerine Flake Stream Lined Baby" and "The Electric Kool Aid Acid Test"?
\par  /Tom Wolfe/
\par 
\par 13. Born in 1881 in Fort 
Wayne, Indiana, he graduated with his M.D. from Rush Medical College in Chicago and then studied pathology in Europe. Choosing scarlet fever as his specialty, who, with his wife Gladys, developed a skin test for susceptability to scarlet fever? 
\par  /George Dick/
\par  
\par 14. He wrote the screenplay for "The French Lieutenant's Woman", but is best known for his plays. Who wrote "The Caretaker", "The Lovers", "The Homecoming", "Betrayal", "The Dwarfs", "Landscape", "The Collection", "Old Times", "No Man's Land", "The 
Turtle Diary", and "The Dumbwaiter"?
\par  /Harold Pinter/
\par 
\par 15. Again rising the charts after a twenty year pause, it was sung in two 1986 summer movies: "Rodney Dangerfield's Back to School" and "Ferris Bueller's Day Off". What is this song made famous by the Beatles on "Please Please Me"?
\par  /Twist and Shout/
\par 
\par 16. Henri Matisse, leader of the Fauves, painted "Blue Nude"; but, what leader of the Abstract Expressionists painted "Blue Poles"?
\par  /Jackson Pollack/
\par 
\par 17. Two answers required. When metabolized, into what two simpler sugars is sucrose split by the process of hydrolysis? 
\par  /glucose, fructose/
\par 
\par 18. Ian Flemming wrote, among many other works, "The Spy Who Loved Me". What American author, however, wrote "The Spy Who Came in From the Cold"?
\par  /John LeCarre/
\par 
\par 19. Its date of observance was set by the 325 AD Council of Nicea. What is this Holiday commemorating the resurrection of Jesus Christ?
\par  /Easter/
\par 
\par 20. Born at Lubeck in 1875, he studied at Munich before beginning his literary career as a writer for the humor magazine "Simplicissimus". Who was this author of "Death in Venice", "The Magic Mountain", and "Buddenbrooks"? 
\par  /Thomas Mann/
\par 
\par 21. This 19th Century philosopher died in 1900, although he was insane the last eleven years of his life. Author of "Beyond Good and Evil", who was this formulator of the Superman Theory?
\par  /Friedrich Nietzsche/
\par 
\par \page 
\par BONUSES (DML205)
\par 
\par 1. Name the following arms control treaties for 5 points each:
\par   a) Convened in 1921; England, France, Japan, and Itlay met with the United States to limit naval tonnage. What is the only significant action of the Harding Administraiton?  
\par  /Washington Naval Conference/
\par 
\par   b) Signed in 1963 by the United States, Great Britain, and the Soviet Union, it prohibited atmospheric, underwater, and outer space explosion of atomic devices.
\par  /Nuclear Test Ban Treaty/
\par 
\par   c) Ratified Sept. 14, 1972, it limited offensive weapons.
\par  /Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty, or SALT I/
\par 
\par   d) Ratified by an  88 - 2 vote in the Senate on August 3, 1972, it limited defensive systems.
\par  /Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty/
\par 
\par   e) On November 24, 1970 this United Nations agreement attempted to limit the spread of atomic weapons.
\par  /Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty/
\par 
\par 2. 30- 20- 10
\par   a) A Senator from Florida in the 1930's, he was defeated by an opponent who accused him of public mastication.
\par   b) He is the Chairman of the House Rules Committee.
\par   c) He is the self- appointed protector of old people in Congress and the savior of Social Security. Who?
\par  /Claude Pepper/
\par 
\par 3. Who wrote these works with the word "Death" in the title for five points apiece:
\par   a) Death of the Hired Man \tab \tab \tab /Robert Frost/
\par   b) Death of a Salesman\tab \tab \tab /Arthur Miller/
\par   c) Death of a Travelling Salesman \tab \tab /Eudora Welty/
\par   d) The Death of Death\tab \tab \tab /Juan Ramon Jiminez/
\par 
\par 4. Now that "Tax Reform" is a certainty, how much do you know about the key players in tax reform. Who are the following for five points each:
\par   a) The Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee
\par  /Dan Rostenkowski/
\par   b) The Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee
\par  /Robert Packwood/
\par   c) The Secretary of the Treasury
\par  /James Baker/
\par   d) The Undersecretary of the Treasury who aided Baker
\par  /Richard Darman/
\par   e) The Republican Representative of New York who supported it before it was popular
\par  /Jack Kemp/
\par   f) The Democratic Senator from New Jersey who supported it before it was popular
\par  /Bill Bradley/
\par 
\par 5. Who wrote the following infamous novels (for five points each)
\par   a) Justine           \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab /Marquis de Sade/
\par   b) Tropic of Cancer  \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab /Henry Miller/
\par   c) Fanny Hill, or The Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure\tab /John Cleland/
\par   d) Lady Chatterly's Lover\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab /David Herbert Lawrence/
\par 
\par 6. Commonly abused drugs often have slang nicknames, for example, Speed is methamphetimene. For five points apiece and a ticket to jail for naming all five, what are the real names for the following controlled substances:
\par   a) Angel dust\tab \tab \tab  \tab /Phencyclidine or PCP/
\par   b) Heaven dust\tab \tab \tab /Cocaine/
\par   c) Schoolboy\tab \tab \tab \tab /Codeine/
\par   d) Acid\tab \tab \tab \tab /Lysergic Acid Diethylamide or LSD/
\par   e) Texas Tea\tab \tab \tab \tab /marijuana/
\par 
\par 7. 30- 20- 10 The name is the same:
\par   a) a phrase from the Starship's "We Built This City"
\par   b) Paintings by Albrecht Durer and Hieronymous Bosch
\par   c) A novel by Katherine Anne Porter
\par  /Ship of Fools/
\par 
\par 8. Who were the famous lovers of these women for five points apiece:
\par   a) Heloise\tab \tab \tab \tab /Pierre Abelard/
\par   b) Beatrice\tab \tab \tab \tab  /Dante/
\par   c) George Sand\tab \tab \tab  /Chopin/
\par   d) Madame Pompadour\tab \tab  /Louis XV/
\par   e) Nefertiti\tab \tab \tab \tab  /Amenhotep IV/
\par 
\par 9. In what year did each of these important battles take place, for five points 
\par apiece:
\par   a) Blenheim\tab \tab \tab \tab /1704/
\par   b) Austerlitz\tab \tab \tab \tab /1805/
\par   c) Agincourt\tab \tab \tab \tab /1415/
\par   d) Culloden Moor\tab \tab \tab /1746/
\par   e) Dienbienphu\tab \tab \tab /1954/
\par 
\par 10. In what city were the treaties ending the following wars signed, for five points each:
\par   a) American Revolution\tab \tab  /Paris/
\par   b) War of 1812\tab \tab \tab /Ghent/
\par   c) Mexican- American War\tab \tab /Guadeloupe- Hidalgo/
\par   d) Spanish- American War\tab \tab /Paris/
\par   e) Vietnam War\tab \tab \tab /Paris/
\par 
\par 11. 30-20-10
\par   a) This architect designed the generic Prarie House and the unbuilt Broadacre City
\par   b) He designed the Robie House and the Johnson Wax Building
\par   c) He designed the house Falling Waters and the Guggenheim Museum
\par  /Frank Lloyd Wright/
\par 
\par 12. For ten points apiece, in what country would you find the following ranges:
\par   a) Great Dividing Range\tab \tab  /Australia/
\par   b) Southern Alps\tab \tab \tab /New Zealand/
\par   c) Mesabi Range\tab \tab \tab /United States (in Minnesota)/
\par 
\par 13. Who were the Presidents the following right hand men served for five points 
\par apiece:
\par   a) Col. House         \tab \tab /Woodrow Wilson/
\par   b) Sherman Adams\tab \tab  /Dwight David Eisenhower/
\par   c) Hamilton Jordan\tab \tab /Jimmy Carter/
\par   d) Duff Green\tab \tab /Andrew Jackson/
\par 
\par 14. For ten points apiece, which valve of the heart:
\par   a) opens onto the aorta artery\tab \tab \tab \tab /semi- lunar/
\par   b) opens from the right auricle to the right ventricle\tab \tab /tricuspici/
\par   c) opens from the left auricle to left ventricle\tab \tab /mitral/
\par 
\par 15. For five points apiece and ten additional points for all four, but a miss stops you, who identified the following psychological phenomena:
\par   a) Birth Trauma\tab \tab \tab /Otto Rank/
\par   b) Inferiority Complex\tab \tab /Alfred Adler/
\par   c) Introversion and Extroversion\tab /Carl Jung/
\par   d) Hierarchy of Needs\tab \tab /Abraham Maslow/
\par 
\par 16. What diseases are caused by these deficiencies, for five points each and five points for all four:
\par   a) vitamin C  \tab /scurvy/
\par   b) protein\tab \tab /kwashiorkor/
\par   c) thiamine\tab \tab /beriberi/
\par   d) vitamin D\tab \tab /ricketts/
\par 
\par 17. What man wrote each of the following journals for five points apiece:
\par   a) Journal of the Plague Year\tab \tab /Daniel Defoe/
\par   b) Journal of a Tour to Corsica\tab \tab /James Boswell/
\par   c) Journal of a Voyage to Lisbo\tab \tab  /Henry Fielding/
\par 
\par 18. For ten points each, answer these constitutional questions:
\par   a) Which two United States Presidents signed the U.S. Constitution
\par  /George Washington, James Madison/
\par   b) Who was the only member of Washington's original cabinet who signed the document
\par  /Alexander Hamilton, Secretary of the Treasury/
\par   c) What was the only state not to send any delegates to the constitional convention
\par  /Rhode Island/
\par 
\par 19. Haughty College Bowlers could answer this question about pride:
\par   a) For Ten Points, what Irish Rock Band sings "Pride: or in the Name of Love"?
\par  /U2/
\par   b) For Ten Points who wrote "Death Be Not Proud"?
\par  /John Gunther/
\par 
\par 20. Discriminating College Bowlers would be able to answer these questions:
\par   a) For Ten Points, what Supreme Court case established "Seperate but Equal" as the law of the land?
\par  /Plessey v. Ferguson/
\par  
\par  b) For Ten More Points, what 1954 case overturned this? 
\par  /Brown v. Board of Education Topeka, KS/
\par }}