{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f32\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0603020202020204}Trebuchet MS;}
{\f50\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f51\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f53\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f54\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f55\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f56\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f57\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f306\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Trebuchet MS CE;}
{\f310\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Trebuchet MS Tur;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 footer;}{\*\cs16 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 header;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}{\*
\cs19 \additive \f32\fs24\ulnone\cf0\animtext0 \sbasedon10 artcopy1;}}{\info{\author User}{\operator User}{\creatim\yr2004\mo9\dy30\hr2\min52}{\revtim\yr2004\mo10\dy1\hr9\min2}{\version8}{\edmins29}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords3331}{\nofchars18989}
{\nofcharsws23319}{\vern8229}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain 
\s17\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst { FILENAME }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof Round 02}}}{
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\pvpara\phmrg\posxc\posy0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\field{\*\fldinst {\cs16 PAGE  }}{\fldrslt {
\cs16\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof 7}}}{\cs16 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b UIUC EARLYBIRD 2004
\par University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
\par October 2, 2004
\par 
\par Round 2 Packet by UIUC ABT (Matt Cvijanovich, Dave Kiang, Tom Phillips, Sudheer Potru, Dom Ricci, Mike Sorice, and Kelly Tourdot)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Toss-Up Questions
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {1. [Computation - 15 secon
ds] Let the acceleration of gravity be uniform and equal to 10 meters per second squared downward. Monty Python designs a catapult to attack some smart-mouthed Frenchmen, but he accidentally fires it straight upwards. Monty launches his projectile with an
 initial velocity of 25 meters per second from the level of the top of his head. How many seconds does Monty have to recognize his error before he is conked on the head?
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul 5}{\fs20  seconds (note: \'93how many seconds\'94
 is the question, so the units are optional)}{\b\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 2. As a military leader, this man met early failure in the Autumn Harvest Uprising of 1927. His speech \'93On the Correct Handling of Contradictions Among the People\'94
 advocated criticism by intellectuals as part of The Hundred Flowers campaign, a position he later reversed, while many of his ideas are contained his book of quotations known as the \'93The Little Red Book.\'94 As his county\rquote 
s leader he imposed both the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution. For ten points identify this Communist leader who defeated Chiang Kai-Shek and became Chairman of the People\rquote s Republic of China. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Mao}{\fs20  Zedong (or }{\b\fs20\ul Mao}{\fs20  Tse-tung)
\par 
\par 3. This class of particles corresponds to the negative energy solutions of Dirac-type equations, and the Feynman interpretation of them 
states that they can be viewed as their counterparts moving backwards in time. Big Bang theory states that these were dominated by their counterparts after the Grand Unification Epoch, and a normal particle is known as \'93self-adjoint\'94
 if it is equivalent to one of these. For ten points, name the type of matter that annihilates normal matter and may be best typified by the positron.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul anti-matter}{\fs20  particles
\par 
\par 4. The current and 104}{\fs20\super th}{\fs20  holder of this post is Rowan Williams. Two famous philosophers who held
 the post were Lanfranc and Anselm, while Stephen Langton incited the nobles against King John while serving in this position. From 1645-60 it was vacant: the only time it has been so for a significant time since 597, when Augustine was dispatched by Greg
ory the Great. Other famous ones have included Thomas Cranmer, the first Anglican one, and the martyr Thomas \'e1 Beckett. For ten points, identify the post that is the highest clerical position in the Anglican Communion.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Archbishop of Canterbury}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 5. John Cotton served as this body\rquote 
s secretary, and among its participants were John Dickenson and Caesar Rodney. It was conceived by John Otis, and nine of the American colonies sent delegations to its meeting in Federal Hall, New York City. In addition to a
dopting the Declaration of Rights, it organized protests against the agents of its namesake act, which prevented the issuance of licenses and the sale of playing cards. For ten points, what was this October 1765 meeting convened in response to a widesprea
d tax on official documents and papers?
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Stamp Act Congress}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par 6. The first scale used for this was devised empirically in 1932, and theoretical scales of it account for both ionization energies and electron affinities. Most ionic bond pairs have a dif
ference of 2 or more in this property, and while the alkali metals have the lowest values on the periodic table, fluorine has the highest value at 4.0 on the Pauling scale. For ten points, name this ability of an atom to attract to itsrlf an electron pair
 shared with another atom in a chemical bond.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\ul electronegativity
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
7. Situated on an arid plateau dominated by the Marrah Mountains, Nyala and El Fasher are among the major cities in this region. In February of 2003, the Justice and Equality Movement and a national \'93Liberation Army\'94
 rose up in rebellion here against the government of Omar el-Bashir, resulting in a massive wave of refugee flight across its western border into neighboring Chad. For ten points, the state-sponsored Arabic Janjaweed Militi
a has been terrorizing the ethnically black inhabitants of what region in western Sudan?
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20 Darfur}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
8. Book VIII of this work begins with a discussion on the nature of knowledge based around the conflict between the Ptolemaic and Copernican systems. B
ook V ends with Abdiel denouncing the antagonist and leaving his Army. Books XI and XII discuss a vision of the future of mankind, while Book I relates the building of Pandemonium after the fallen angels land in Hell. The climax occurs in Book IX, in whic
h Eve and Adam partake of the forbidden fruit. For ten points, identify the epic poem about the fall of man by John Milton.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\b\i\fs20\ul Paradise Lost}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 9. This man actually wound-up his life completely blind in St. Petersburg, Russia, far from his home, but, in
 his 76 years, he managed to partially solve the three-body problem in 1753, establish the law of quadratic reciprocity in 1783, and introduce his namesake identity relating trigonometric functions and complex numbers in 1748. For ten points, name the Swi
s}{\f53\fs20 s mathematician who introduced such symbols as \'d3 for summation, }{\i\fs20 f}{\fs20  for a function, }{\i\fs20 i}{\fs20  for the imaginary unit, and }{\i\fs20 e}{\fs20  for the natural number, which is sometimes named for him.
\par \tab Answer: Leonhard }{\b\fs20\ul Euler}{\b\ul 
\par 
\par }{\fs20 10. This author was highly associated with historical parti
cularism, and she worked as special adviser to the Office of War Information to deal with peoples of occupied territories during World War II. Her first book received little acclaim compared to her famous analysis of Zuni mythology, and she argued that th
e \'93personality\'94 of a group defined its successes, misfits, and outcasts in her 1934 book }{\i\fs20 Patterns of Culture}{\fs20 . For ten points, name this Columbia psychologist and sociologist, author of }{\i\fs20 The Chrysanthemum and the Sword}{
\fs20 .
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab Ruth Fulton }{\b\fs20\ul Benedict}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 11. This man\rquote s rivals included Cratinus and Eupolis. In Plato\rquote s }{\i\fs20 Symposium}{\fs20 
, he delivers a speech in which he argues that men were originally quadrupeds before being bisected by Zeus, and concludes that love is the pursuit of the other half. His earliest play was the now lost}{\i\fs20  Banqueters}{\fs20 , while his second, }{
\i\fs20 Babylonians}{\fs20 , criticized the demagogue Cleon, which he continued to do in }{\i\fs20 The Acharnians}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 The Knights}{\fs20 
. Other plays of his concern the building of Cloudcukooland, a sex-strike by women to end a war, and a literary contest in hell. For ten points, identify this Greek comedian, author of }{\i\fs20 The Birds}{\fs20 , }{\i\fs20 Lysistrata}{\fs20 , and }{
\i\fs20 The Frogs}{\fs20 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Aristophanes}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 12. The cholera toxin causes dehydration and death through mechanisms precisely opposite to this disease, which is rare in Asians. It affects the body\rquote 
s endocrine glands; arises from a mutation in the middle of chromosome seven; and is characterized by chronic cough, recurrent pneumonia, and a sticky mucus that clogs both the gastrointestinal and respiratory tracts. For ten po
ints, name this disease that generally causes sterility in adult males; a mostly European genetic disorder.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20\ul cystic fibrosis}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 13. Many of the troubles of this man\rquote s life are summarized in his \'93Heiligenstadt Testament,\'94 and his greatest influences were probably C.P.E. Bach and his teacher, Christian Neefe. Among this man\rquote s works are the }{\i\fs20 
Righini Variations}{\fs20 , the ballet }{\i\fs20 The Creatures of Prometheus}{\fs20 , and incidental music to the Goethe play }{\i\fs20 Egmont}{\fs20 . For ten points, identify the Austro-German composer of such timeless work as the bagatelle }{\i\fs20 F
\'fcr Elise}{\fs20 , the }{\i\fs20 Kreutzer}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 Moonlight}{\fs20  sonatas, and 9 symphonies, including the }{\i\fs20 Eroica}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 Pastoral}{\fs20 .
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: Ludwig van }{\b\fs20\ul Beethoven}{\fs20\ul 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 14. A speech in Act II, Scene II of this drama describes the fall of Troy, after which it is announced that the play }{\i\fs20 The Murder of Gonzago}{\fs20 
 will take place the next night. Near the beginning, Voltimand and Cornelius are sent abroad to prevent attack on the country, and near the end, a speech by the jester Osric prefigures four crucial deaths, includ
ing that of the title character, whom Fortinbras gives a proper burial. For ten points, name this 1601 drama about the demise of Gertrude, Claudius, and a certain prince of Denmark.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\i\fs20\ul Hamlet}{\i\fs20 , Prince of Denmark}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 15. This home of 22 glaciers and source
 of the Kuban River is known to some as Strobilus. The higher peak of this extinct volcano was first reached by F. Crauford Grove in 1874, six years after its lower summit was reached. Located in extreme Southwestern Russia, for ten points, name this high
est peak of the Caucasus Mountains.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: Mount }{\b\fs20\ul Elbrus}{\fs20  (or }{\i\fs20 Gora }{\b\i\fs20\ul Elbrus}{\fs20 )
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 16. This work was the subject of an exhibition in the summer of 2004 in Chicago. In it, a tower is visible at top left above a white sailboat and black steamship. Features include a 
young girl in white looking directly at the viewer and a sailor smoking a pipe at bottom left, but the monkey-leading, bustle-wearing prostitute at center right is especially striking. For ten points, name this monumental canvas painted from 1884 to 1886,
 a current resident of the Art Institute of Chicago and the pointillist masterpiece of George Seurat.
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\i\fs20 A }{\b\i\fs20\ul Sunday}{\i\fs20  Afternoon }{\b\i\fs20\ul on}{\i\fs20  the Island of }{\b\i\fs20\ul La Grande Jatte}{\fs20  (or }{\i\fs20 Un }{
\b\i\fs20\ul dimanche}{\i\fs20  apr\'e8s-midi }{\b\i\fs20\ul \'e0 }{\i\fs20 l\rquote ille de }{\b\i\fs20\ul la Grande Jatte}{\fs20 )
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 17. The ramifications of this event were greatly exacerbated by overzealous enforcement of the Corn Laws, which were designed in no small part to make the place where it occurred more self-sufficient. The malady at the base of this event is caused by }{
\i\fs20 phytophthora ifestans}{\fs20 , and it caused approximately one million deaths and two million emigrations, reducing the namesake area\rquote 
s population by approximately thirty eight percent. For ten points, name this tragedy in the history of Ireland; a period of approximately 5 years during which a disease rendered that island\rquote s staple crop unable to be grown.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: Great }{\b\fs20\ul Potato Famine}{\fs20  (or Great }{\b\fs20\ul Irish Famine}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20\ul Famine of 1845-49}{\fs20 )
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 18. This character is the son of Nyame and Asase Ya, and his exploits are told to the dead in the Saramaca and Paramaribo cultures
. This deity was dethroned after being tricked using a wax girl, though his time as king of humans, whom he created after dividing night from day, saw the implementation of agriculture. For ten points, name the Ashanti trickster god known as \lquote 
the Spider.\rquote 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: Kwaku }{\b\fs20\ul Anansi}{\fs20  (accept }{\b\fs20\ul Annecy}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20\ul Aunt Nancy}{\fs20 )
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 19. This man\rquote s friend Max Brod published much of his unfinished work after his death, and he once commented, \'93The terror of art is that the dream reveals the reality.\'94 The author of a number of depressing short stories, including \'93
A Country Doctor\'94 and \'93In the Penal Colony,\'94 he also created such characters as Joseph K. for }{\i\fs20 The Trial}{\fs20  and the salesman Gregor Samsa for his story about a giant bug. For ten points, name this Czech author of }{\i\fs20 
The Metamorphosis}{\fs20 . 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 Answer:\tab Franz }{\b\fs20\ul\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 Kafka
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\lang1031\langfe1033\langnp1031 
\par }{\fs20 20. This man\rquote s opposition to the Burnsides\rquote 
 plan for the Battle of Petersburg is viewed as one major reason for the failure of the attack. He commanded the Army of the Potomac throughout the final stages of the Civil War, though this f
act is rarely mentioned in history books. For ten points, name this Union General most famous for commanding the Army of the Potomac at the Battle of Gettysburg.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: George G. }{\b\fs20\ul Meade
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20\ul \page }{\b U}{\b IUC EARLYBIRD 2004
\par University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
\par October 2, 2004
\par 
\par Round 2 Packet by UIUC ABT (Matt Cvijanovich, Dave Kiang, Tom Phillips, Sudheer Potru, Dom Ricci, Mike Sorice, and Kelly Tourdot)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Bonus Questions
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par 1. Answer each of the following about a thinker and his work for ten points.
\par 1. This lecturer and essayist carried on a life-long correspondence with Thomas Carlysle and resigned his post as a Unitarian minister shortly after the death of his wife in 1831.h
\par \tab Answer: Ralph Waldo }{\b\fs20\ul Emerson}{\fs20 
\par 2. Emerson\rquote s first and perhaps best known work is this book, which was first published anonymously in 1836. It seeks to answer the question \'93Why should not we also enjoy an original relation to the universe?\'94
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\i\fs20\ul Nature}{\fs20 
\par 3. Emerson is often regarded as the foremost exponent of this philosophical movement, which largely stemmed from American misinterpretation of Kant\rquote s synthesis and exposition of the same name.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Transcendental}{\fs20 ism
\par 
\par 2. Identify the country from some of its 20}{\fs20\super th}{\fs20  century leaders for ten points each.
\par 1. Muhammad Ali Jinnah, Benazir Bhutto, and Pervez Musharraf.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Pakistan}{\fs20 
\par 2. Sukarno, Suharto, and Megawati Sukarnoputri.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Indonesia}{\fs20 .
\par 3. Juan Carlos Wasmosy and Alfredo Stroessner.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Paraguay}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 3. Name these Faulkner novels from characters, for ten points each.
\par 1. Thomas and Henry Sutpen and Quentin Compson.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\i\fs20\ul Absalom!  Absalom!
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 2. Addie Bundren, Darl, Cash, and Jewel.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\i\fs20 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul Sound and the Fury}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 3. Joanna Burden and Joe Christmas
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:}{\i\fs20  }{\b\i\fs20\ul Light in August}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 4. Name each of the following coordinate systems for ten points.
\par 1. This orthonormal, rectangular coordinate system has coordinates that are known generally as }{\i\fs20 x}{\fs20 , }{\i\fs20 y}{\fs20 , and }{\i\fs20 z}{\fs20  in three dimensions.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Castesian}{\fs20  coordinates
\par 2. This two-dimensional coordinate system was devised by Newton and has coordinates }{\i\fs20 r}{\fs20 , the distance from an origin point, and }{\i\f53\fs20 \'e8}{\fs20  [\'93theta\'94
], the angle a line through the origin and the point specified makes with an \'93upward\'94 line. A circle of radius }{\i\fs20 R}{\fs20  [\'93big r\'94] centered at the origin is thus specified by the equation }{\i\fs20 r}{\fs20  = }{\i\fs20 R}{\fs20 .}{

\par }{\fs20 \tab Answer: circular }{\b\fs20\ul polar}{\fs20  coordinates (prompt on }{\b\fs20\ul circular}{\fs20  coordinates, which are more general)
\par 3. This three-dimensional system is one of the natural extensions of polar coordinates. In it, a radius, a polar plane angle, and an azimuthal inclination angle specify a point.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul spherical}{\fs20  polar coordinates
\par 
\par 5. Identify the following about an ancient philosopher and his work for ten points each.
\par 1. This native of Stagira tutored Alexander the Great and founded the Lycuem.  His works include a book on literary criticism called }{\i\fs20 The Poetics}{\fs20 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Aristotle}{\fs20 
\par 2. In his }{\i\fs20 Prior Analytics}{\fs20 , Aristotle focuses on this type of logical argument that is composed of two premises and a conclusion that necessarily follows from them. An example: is all cats are mammals; Heathcliff is a cat; therefore, Heat
hcliff is a mammal.
\par \tab Answer: categorical }{\b\fs20\ul syllogism}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
3. In this work, which takes its name for the son who edited it, Aristotle attacks the Socratic view that humans who commit sin lack knowledge with his idea of the }{\i akratic}{, or weak-willed person. He also argues that the only end in itself is }{\i 
eudaimonia}{, or happiness.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\b\i\fs20\ul Nicomachean Ethics}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 6. Answer each of the following relating to a certain very famous work of art for ten points each.
\par 1. This 1506 oil by Leonardo da Vinci probably depicts the wife of Francesco del Giocondo, hence its alternate title.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\fs20 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul Mona Lisa}{\fs20  (prompt on }{\i\fs20 La }{\b\i\fs20\ul Giocanda}{\fs20 )
\par 2. Probably the most famous work of the dada movement is }{\i\fs20 L.H.O.O.Q.}{\fs20 , a defacement of }{\i\fs20 The Mona Lisa}{\fs20  by this French non-artist.
\par \tab Answer: Marcel }{\b\fs20\ul Duchamp
\par }{\fs20 3. Another work derivative of }{\i\fs20 The Mona Lisa}{\fs20 , albeit in a somewhat indirect fashion, is the 1876 opera }{\i\fs20 La gioconda}{\fs20  by this Italian composer.
\par \tab Answer: Amilcare }{\b\fs20\ul Ponchielli}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 7. Answer the following about a novel, for ten points each.
\par 1. It follows Jack Burden\rquote s research on the work of Cass Mastern, but eventually details the scandals surrounding both Judge Irwin and the corrupt politician Willie Stark.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\i\fs20\ul All the King\rquote s Men}{\b\fs20\ul 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 2. Name the author of }{\i\fs20 All the King\rquote s Men}{\fs20 .
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab Robert Penn }{\b\fs20\ul Warren
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 3. The life and character of Willie Stark are based on this tyrannical and corrupt Louisiana governor nicknamed \'93the Kingfish.\'94
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab Huey Pierce }{\b\fs20\ul Long}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 8. Answer each of the following appertaining to the integrated forms of Maxwell\rquote s equations for ten points.
\par 1. Gauss\rquote  law for the electric field implies that the electric flux through a closed surface is proportional to the amount of this enclosed by that surface.
\par \tab Answer: electric }{\b\fs20\ul charge}{\fs20 
\par 2. The fact that Gauss\rquote  law for the magnetic field states that the magnetic flux through any closed surface is zero means that it forbids the existence of these hypothetical particles, the magnetic equivalent of charges.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul magnetic monopole}{\fs20 s (prompt on }{\b\fs20\ul monopole}{\fs20 s or magnetic }{\b\fs20\ul charge}{\fs20 s)
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
3. This law states that the time rate of change of the magnetic flux through a surface bounded by a loop is equal to the electromotive force induced in that loop. With Gauss\rquote  law for the electric field, it can be used to de
rive conservation of charge.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Faraday\rquote s law of induction}{\fs20  (prompt on }{\b\fs20\ul Faraday}{
\fs20 \rquote s law, since he has others)
\par 
\par 9. Answer each of the following about a certain field of social science for ten points.
\par 1. The name of this field was coined in the 19}{\fs20\super th}{\fs20  century and it is the suc
cessor to the field of philology for the study of human communications. It distinguishes synchronic and diachronic varieties of itself, and perhaps the single classic defining this field is Saussure\rquote s \'93Course in [the] General [Variety].\'94

\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul linguistics}{\fs20 
\par 2. From the Greek for structure, this smallest linguistic structural unit can be a word, prefix, suffix, or simple root.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20\ul morpheme}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 3. From the Greek for sound, this is the smallest linguistic unit of sound that distinguishes meaning.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20\ul phoneme}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 10. Name the revolts in France for ten points each.
\par 1. Two outbreaks called this, one \'93of the Parlement\'94 and the other \'93of the Princes,\'94 troubled the young Louis XIV and his minister, Cardinal Mazarin.
\par \tab Answer: The }{\b\fs20\ul Fronde}{\fs20 
\par 2. The February Revolution which installed the Second Republic after ousting Louis Philippe was part of this series of European revolts named for the year in which they took place.
\par \tab Answer: Revolutions of }{\b\fs20\ul 1848}{\fs20 
\par 3. This uprising of May to March 1871 was led by anarchists, socialists and republicans opposed to Adolphe Thiers and the National Assembly. It was ruthlessly put down during the \'93Bloody Week.\'94
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Paris Commune}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 11. Name each of the following arcade classics for ten points.
\par 1. This 1982 creation of Williams Entertainment has the player controlling an ostrich-mounted knight who must defeat the Buzzard Riders.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Joust}{\fs20 
\par 2. This Atari offering was among the first games to use a trackball. In it, your mission is to shoot fleas, spiders, mushrooms, and all twelve segments of the namesake insect.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Centipede}{\fs20 
\par 3. This paddle-controlled, two-player game will tell you that its objective is to \'93Avoid missing ball for high score.\'94 This Nolan Bushnell creation of 1972 is often credited with creating the video gaming industry.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Pong}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 12. Identify the following about the beginning and end of the French Fourth Republic for ten points each.
\par 1. The Fourth Republic succeeded, after a brief provisional government, what German controlled government led by Henri Petain and Pierre Laval?
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Vichy}{\fs20  government
\par 2. The Fourth Republic come to an end as a result of the conflict between the army and the left over this country\rquote s war for independence from France.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Algeria}{\fs20 
\par 3. This man, formerly the leader of the Free French Forces, was given emergency powers when the conflict over Algeria came to a head. He created the more centralized Fifth Republic and became its first president.
\par \tab Answer: Charles }{\b\fs20\ul De Gaulle}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 13. Answer these questions about the kidney, for ten points each.
\par 1. These are the functional units that comprise the kidney.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul nephron}{\fs20 s
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 2. The vascular component of each nephron includes this tightly woven ball of capillaries that is embedded in the Bowman\rquote s capsule.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul glomerulus}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 3. This is the hairpin-shaped region of the renal tubule in which water and salt are reabsorbed by counter-diffusion.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul loop of Henle}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 14. Answer each of the following about a painter\rquote s life and work for ten points.
\par 1. The creation of these works designed for churches gave an early impetus for painting. Famous creators of them include Meister Francke and Lucas Cranick, while famous examples include the Maest\'e0 and Isenheim ones.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul altarpiece}{\fs20 s
\par 2. This former painter to Uriel von Gemmingen, elector of Mainz, created }{\i\fs20 The Isenheim Altarpiece}{\fs20  as well as such great works as }{\i\fs20 The Mocking of Christ}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 The Meeting of Saints Erasmus and Maurice}{\fs20 .

\par \tab Answer: Matthias }{\b\fs20\ul Gr\'fcnewald}{\fs20  (or Mathis }{\b\fs20\ul Gothardt}{\fs20  Nithardt)
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {3. This \'93opera in 7 scenes\'94 is a fictionalized account of Gr\'fcnewald\rquote 
s life and was produced in 1934 by Paul Hindemith.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\b\i\fs20\ul Mathis der Mahler}{\i\fs20 , opera in 7 scenes}{\fs20  (or }{\b\i\fs20\ul 
Mathis the Painter}{\i\fs20 , opera in 7 scenes}{\fs20 )
\par 
\par 15. Answer these questions about a technique in chemistry, for ten points each.
\par 1. This process involves delivery from a buret of a measured volume of a solution of known concentration into a solution containing a substance to be analyzed.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20\ul titration}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 2. This is the point in a titration at which the concentrations of titrant and analyte in the solution are precisely the same.}{\i\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20\ul equivalence}{\fs20  point (or }{\b\fs20\ul stoichiometric}{\fs20  point)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 3. This common indicator is used in many lab titrations. It is colorless in acidic solutions and pink in basic solutions.}{\i\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20\ul phenolphthalein}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 16. [Computation \endash  10 seconds per part] Given a number and the base it is in, convert it to the desired base for ten points.
\par 1. Convert 690, base 10, to base 2.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul 1010110010}{\fs20  [\'93}{\b\fs20\ul one zero one zero one one zero zero one zero}{\fs20 \'94], base 2.
\par 2. 3E7, base 16, to base 10, where E is 9, base sixteen + 5, base sixteen.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul 999}{\fs20 , base 10
\par }{\f53\fs20 3. 100, base \'f0 [p}{\fs20 i], to base }{\i\fs20 e}{\fs20 . Fix your answer to a precision of two decimal places.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul 102.10}{\fs20\ul 
\par }{\fs20 
\par 17. Name these novels by Gabriel Garcia Marquez from characters, for ten points each.
\par 1. Santiago Nasar; Angela Vicario}{\i\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\i\fs20\ul Chronicle of a Death Foretold}{\fs20  (or }{\b\i\fs20\ul Cr\'f3nica de una muerte anunciada}{\fs20 )
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 2. Colonel Aureliano Buendia; Amaranta
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\i\fs20\ul One Hundred Years of Solitude}{\fs20  (or }{\b\i\fs20\ul Cien a\'f1os de solidad}{\fs20 )
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 3. Dr. Juvenal Urbino; Fermina Daza
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\i\fs20\ul Love in the Time of Cholera}{\fs20  (or }{\i\fs20 El }{\b\i\fs20\ul amor en los tiempos de c\'f3lera}{\fs20 )}{
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 18. Name these Shelley poems from first lines, for ten points each.
\par 1. \'93Hail to thee, Blithe Spirit!\'94
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab \'93}{\b\fs20\ul To a Skylark}{\fs20 \'94}{\b\fs20\ul 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 2. \'93The awful shadow of some unseen Power / Floats though unseen among us\'85\'94
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab \'93Hymn to }{\b\fs20\ul Intellectual Beauty}{\fs20 \'94}{\b\fs20\ul 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 3. \'93I met a traveler from an antique land\'94
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab \'93}{\b\fs20\ul Ozymandias}{\fs20 \'94
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 19. For ten points each, identify these mountain passes.
\par 1. This gap opened settlement of Trans-Appalachia by easing travel from Virginia to Kentucky.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Cumberland}{\fs20  Gap
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 2. This site of some grisly 1847 action cuts through the Sierra Nevada about 56 kilometers Southwest of Reno.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Donner Pass}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 3. This is significant path from Af}{\f57\fs20 ghanistan to Pakistan allows travel through the Hindu Kush to Pesh\'e2war.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Khyber Pass}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 20. Identify the following about an Italian city during the Renaissance for ten points each.
\par 1. During the Renaissance, this city experienced the Revolt of the Ciompi, The Pazzi Conspiracy, and the theocracy of Savonarola with the accompanying Bonfires of the Vanities.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Florence}{\fs20 
\par 2. This family ruled Florence during most of the 15}{\fs20\super th}{\fs20  century under leaders such as Cosimo and Lorenzo.
\par \tab Answer: de }{\b\fs20\ul Medici}{\fs20 
\par 3. In 1509, under the leadership of Piero Soderini, Florence finally succeeded in capturing this rival city of Tuscany. It is known for a 12}{\fs20\super th}{\fs20  century monument.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Pisa}{\fs20 
\par }}