{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f50\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f51\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f53\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f54\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f55\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f56\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f57\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 footer;}{\*\cs16 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 header;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}}
{\info{\title UIUC EARLYBIRD 2004}{\author User}{\operator User}{\creatim\yr2004\mo10\dy1\hr8\min10}{\revtim\yr2004\mo10\dy1\hr8\min32}{\version4}{\edmins14}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords3583}{\nofchars20427}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8229}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain 
\s17\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\field{\*\fldinst { FILENAME }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof Round 01.rtf}}}{
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\pvpara\phmrg\posxc\posy0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\field{\*\fldinst {\cs16 PAGE  }}{\fldrslt {
\cs16\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof 2}}}{\cs16 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b UIUC EARLYBIRD 2004
\par University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
\par October 2, 2004
\par 
\par Round 1 Packet by UIUC ABT (Matt Cvijanovich, Dave Kiang, Tom Phillips, Sudheer Potru, Dom Ricci, Mike Sorice, and Kelly Tourdot)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Toss-Up Questions
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
1. During an early military assignment, this man was accused of having a homosexual relationship with King Nicomedes of Bithynia. Sallust recorded this leader\rquote s speech against executing captured members of Catiline\rquote 
s conspiracy, and his many defeated enemies included Ariovistus, Pharnaces of Pontus, and Vercingetorix, whom he defeated in the siege of Alesia to solidify his conquest of Gaul. 
However, his greatest victory occurred at Pharsalus in 48 BCE, when he defeated Pompey, his opponent in the Civil Wars. For ten points, who was this Roman leader assassinated on the Ides of March?
\par \tab Answer: Gaius }{\b\fs20\ul Julius Caesar}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 2. The author of this work had a Lincolnshire accent, as seen in his rhyming of \'93wonder\rquote d,\'94 \'93sunder\rquote d\'94 and \'93blunder\rquote d\'94 with \'93hundred.\'94 Repetition is a key device used in this poem, as exemplified by the phrase 
\'93half a league\'94 repeated thrice in the first two lines. The final stanza begins \'93When can their glory fade?\'94 while the titular event is carried out by men whose duty was \'93not to reason why\'94 but \'93to do or die.\'94
 Based on an event in the Crimean War, the horror of the action is emphasized by repeating the phrase \'93Into the Valley of Death.\'94 For ten points, identify this Tennyson poem about a doomed assault.
\par \tab Answer: \'93The }{\b\fs20\ul Charge of the Light Brigade}{\fs20 \'94
\par 
\par }{\f53\fs20 3. This was first isolated in 1811 by Henry Braconnot, and it consists of repeated \'e2-1-4 N-glucosamine [\'93beta one four\'94 enn glue-COSE-uh}{\fs20 
-mine] linkages, which leads to its poor solubility and highly crystalline structure. This compound is very difficult to break down, which explains its excellence as a structural material in organisms not containing cellulose. For ten points, name this co
mpound, which comprises the majority of fungal cell walls, the exoskeletons of arthropods, and the shell of most crustaceans.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20\ul chitin}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 4. One of this author\rquote s prose works is a collection of aphorisms, }{\i\fs20 Meditations Divine and Moral}{\fs20 , though she is better known for her poetry. Her collection }{\i\fs20 Contemplations}{\fs20 
 was published after her death, while her most important volume includes such religious verses as \'93Of the Vanity of All Worldly Creatures\'94 and \'93The Flesh and the Spirit.\'94 For ten points, name the Puritanical author of }{\i\fs20 
The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America}{\fs20 , which includes a poem about her house burning down.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab Anne }{\b\fs20\ul Bradstreet}{\fs20  (or Anne }{\b\fs20\ul Dudley}{\fs20 )
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 5. This piece is reproduced in miniature directly below the }{\i\fs20 Three Shades}{\fs20  in the artist\rquote s }{\i\fs20 The Gates of Hell}{\fs20 
, for which it was originally designed. The best-known version of this work was commissioned by Gabriel Mourney to stand in front of the Paris Panth\'e9on, but was subsequently moved to the garden of the H\'f4
tel Biron. This bronze is meant to invoke Michelangelo\rquote s conception of the pensive damned. For ten points, name this most famous sculpture of Auguste Rodin.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\i\fs20 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul Thinker}{\fs20  (or }{\b\i\fs20\ul Le Penseur}{\fs20 )
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 6. This author\rquote s father served as pastor of R\'f6chen, and early influences on his work include Friedrich Ritschl and Erwin Rohde. This Basel classics professor summarized his own work in }{\i\fs20 Ecce Homo}{\fs20 , while his better works include 
}{\i\fs20 On the Genealogy of Morals}{\fs20 , }{\i\fs20 Twilight of the Idols}{\fs20 , }{\i\fs20 Thus Spake Zarathurtra}{\fs20 , and }{\i\fs20 Beyond Good and Evil}{\fs20 . For ten points, name the German philosopher perhaps best known for declaring that 
\'93God is dead.\'94
\par \tab Answer: Friedrich Wilhelm }{\b\fs20\ul Nietzsche}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 7. One of this man\rquote s early exploits was the capt
ure of the fortress of Taillebourg, and his greatest set-piece battle was Arsuf. He died while besieging the castle of Chaluz in the Limousin after being wounded by a crossbow bolt. He participated in the siege of Tyre with his rival Philip Augustus of Fr
ance as part of the 3}{\fs20\super rd}{\fs20 
 Crusade, and was imprisoned by Leopold of Austria on his way home. The son of Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitaine he was succeeded by his brother, John. For ten points identify this English king associated with Robin Hood.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Richard I}{\fs20  of England (or }{\b\fs20\ul Richard the Lionhearted}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20\ul Richard Coeur de Lion}{\fs20 )
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
8. This element occurs in both yellow and gray crystalline forms, the latter of which undergoes sublimation at high temperatures. Used by Paul Ehrlich in a treatment for syphilis and by the Germans during World War II for their war gas \'93Lewisite,\'94
 it finds use today in pesticides and herbicides, or in combination with gallium for doping in semiconductors. For ten points, name this extremely poisonous element with atomic number 33 and symbol As.
\par }\pard \s18\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Answer:\tab }{\b\ul arsenic}{
\par }\pard \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 9. This faith\rquote 
s creation story involves Ame-No-Toko-Tachi, and its gods include Hachiman, Susanowo, and Izanagi. The Kokka sect of this practice encouraged emperor-worship due to the royal pinnacle, Jimmu, descendent of the sun g
oddess Amaterasu. For ten points, name the religion that has a name meaning \'93way of the }{\i\fs20 kami}{\fs20 \'94 and that is native to Japan.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f57\fs20\ul Shint\'f4}{\fs20 ism
\par 
\par 10. The largest island in this body of water, Valammo, has been home to monastery since the 10}{\fs20\super th}{\fs20  century, and during the Siege of Leningrad, its frozen surface provided a way for Russian reinforcements to reach that city via the \'93
road of life.\'94 Its tributaries are the Rivers Vuoska and Sivir, and it empties via the Neva into the Gulf of Finland. Located in Karelia, Russia, for ten points, name this largest lake in Europe.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: Lake }{\b\fs20\ul Ladoga}{\fs20  (or }{\b\i\fs20\ul Ladozhskoye}{\i\fs20  Ozero}{\fs20  or }{\b\i\fs20\ul Ladozhskoe}{\i\fs20  Ozero}{\fs20 )
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 11. Important leaders of this group included Uldin, who helped Stilicho defeat the Ostrogoths, and Balamir, who led them to Europe. Thi
s people was scattered after the battle of Nedao, in which Ardaric of the Gepids defeated Ellak, the son of their greatest leader. This tribe was probably related to the Xiong-Nu, who terrorized the Hans, and they received Roman tribute from the time of R
ua until their defeat by Aetius at Chalons sur Marne. For ten points, identify the barbarians led by Attila.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Hun}{\fs20 s
\par 
\par 12. After dropping out of school at age 18, this scientist worked as an assistant paleontologist for Louis Leakey. This woman gai
ned fame for her longtime work at the Gombe Stream National Park, was made a Dame of the British Empire in 2003, and has a namesake institute centered at Ridgefield, Connecticut. For ten points, name the author of }{\i\fs20 In the Shadow of Man}{\fs20 
, a British ethologist famous for her lifelong studies of apes in Tanzania.}{\i\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab Baroness Jane van Lawick-}{\b\fs20\ul Goodall}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 13. The ignorance of the public in this novel is represented by Gail Wynand\rquote s publication, \'93The Banner,\'94 and its author\rquote s aversion to organized religion can be 
seen in a speech that Peter Keating hears from Ellsworth Toohey near the end. Henry Cameron is the first employer of the main character, whom Dominique Francon privately sleeps with and publicly derides for his non-traditional buildings. For ten points, n
ame this novel about the selfish young architect Howard Roark, written by Ayn Rand.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\i\fs20 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul Fountainhead}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 14. This property arises due to off-diagonal elements of the momentum transfer tensor, and, in many fluids, it is a constant of proportionality between the sheer stress and strain rate. Poiseuille\rquote 
s [pwa-ZAYZ] equation relates the pipe friction factor to this property for laminar flow, so the cgs unit for its dynamic variety is called the Poise. For ten points, name the fluid property that has dynami
c and kinematic versions, both of which measure the resistance of a fluid to flow.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul viscosity}{\fs20  (accept dynamic }{\b\fs20\ul viscosity}{\fs20  or kinematic }{\b\fs20\ul viscosity}{\fs20  before \'93its dynamic variety\'94)
\par 
\par 15. [Computation - 15 seconds] Under current plans to take over the world,
 Pinky is constructing doohickeys while Brain builds gizmos. 4 hours of labor are needed to build each doohickey/gizmo combo. If 40 hours are needed to construct 12 doohickeys and 4 gizmos, how many hours of work are needed to produce a single doohickey a
nd a single gizmo?
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul 3}{\fs20  hours for a doohickey and}{\b\fs20  }{\b\fs20\ul 1}{\fs20  hour for a gizmo (note: \'93how many hours\'94
 is the question, so the units are optional; accept the answers only in this order if given without further information, though accept in any order with specification, }{\i\fs20 i}{\fs20 .}{\i\fs20 e}{\fs20 . accept }{\b\fs20\ul 1}{\fs20  hour for a }{
\b\fs20\ul gizmo}{\fs20  and }{\b\fs20\ul 3}{\fs20  hours for a }{\b\fs20\ul doohickey}{\fs20 )
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 16. This locale is the site of the grave of Osceola, and is named for the victor at the battle of Hanging Rock. The original 
designs for this building were created in 1827, and construction of the artificial island on which it sits began two years later. However, this Fort was not occupied until December 1860, when forces under the command of Major Robert Anderson were ordered 
to garrison it to enforce Union suzerainty. For ten points, name this fortification built to defend Charleston Harbor, the site of the traditional opening exchanges of the American Civil War.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: Fort }{\b\fs20\ul Sumter
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20\ul 
\par }{\fs20 17. In the operator theory of quantum mechan
ics, this entity is the operand used to determine the various properties of a particle. According to the Born interpretation, the square of the absolute value of this at any given point is equal to the probability density for finding the particle that it 
represents at that point. For ten points, name the fundamental function of quantum mechanics that is symbolized }{\i\f53\fs20 \'f8}{\fs20  and determined in general by the Schr\'f6dinger equation.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul wave function}{\fs20  (or }{\b\fs20\ul state function}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20\ul state vector}{\fs20 )
\par 
\par 18. In the rear of the actio
n of this 1784 work are three women, two of whom have fainted, and a child. The central figure, father of the title characters, wears a red toga and holds in his left hand a scimitar, cutlass, and gladius. The titular action is taken by the three brothers
 on the right, all of whom wear crested helmets in, for ten points, what work depicting a solemn ceremony from Livy; a neoclassical painting by Jacques Louis David.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\i\fs20 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul Oath of the Horatii}{\fs20  (or }{\i\fs20 Le }{\b\i\fs20\ul serment des Horaces}{\fs20 )
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 19. This man\rquote s claims about his past seem to match his appearance, given his Buster Sword and green \'93Mako\'94
 eyes, but he has actually swapped personalities with Zach, a SOLDIER present at the destruction of his hometown of Nibelheim, whom he emulates so well that he wins Zach\rquote s ex-girlfr
iend, Aeris Gainsborough. For ten points, name this adversary of Shinra and Sephiroth, the spiky-haired protagonist of }{\i\fs20 Final Fantasy VII}{\fs20 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Cloud}{\fs20  Strife
\par 
\par 20. The speaker in this poem claims to accept both reality and Time absolutely. Divided into 52 separate parts, its twenty-fourth section describes the speaker as a \'93kosmos, of mighty Manhattan the son\'94, while another invites the reader to come and 
\'93Loafe with [him] on the grass.\'94  This is after he makes repeated claims about his love for the soul, and that he assumes that the reader shall as well. For ten points, name this long poem in which Walt Whitman celebrates himself.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab \'93}{\b\fs20\ul Song of Myself}{\fs20 \'94
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \page }{\b UIUC EARLYBIRD 2004
\par University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
\par October 2, 2004
\par 
\par Round 1 Packet by UIUC ABT (Matt Cvijanovich, Dave Kiang, Tom Phillips, Sudheer Potru, Dom Ricci, Mike Sorice, and Kelly Tourdot)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Bonus Questions
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 1. For ten points each, answer the following questions about Operation Just Cause.
\par 1. Operation Just Cause is the codename for the invasion of which Central American country?
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: Republic of }{\b\fs20\ul Panama}{\fs20  (or }{\i\fs20 Rep\'fablica de }{\b\i\fs20\ul Panama}{\fs20 )
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 2. Which U.S. President ordered the execution of Operation Just Cause?
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: George }{\b\fs20\ul H}{\fs20 erbert Walker }{\b\fs20\ul Bush}{\fs20  (prompt on George }{\b\fs20\ul Bush}{\fs20 ; gudgingly accept George Herbert Walker }{
\b\fs20\ul Bush, Sr.}{\fs20  or other close equivalents)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 3. What commander of the Panamanian Defense Forces was arrested and brought to the U.S. to stand trial for drug trafficking?
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:  Manuel Antonio }{\b\fs20\ul Noriega}{\fs20  Morena
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20\ul 
\par }{\fs20 2. Name each of the following about some fundamental particles for ten points.
\par 1. The name of these subatomic particles is derived from James Joyce\rquote s description of the sound a seagull makes. They have baryon number 1/3, come in six \'93flavors\'94 and three \'93colors,\'94 and comprise the hadrons and mesons.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul quark}{\fs20 s
\par 2. This most massive of quarks has a rest energy of about 176 gigaelectronvolts, a charge of two-thirds the proton charge, and a value of 1 for its namesake property. It was discovered at Batavia, Illinois\rquote  Fermi Lab in 1994.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul t}{\fs20 op quark (or }{\b\fs20\ul t}{\fs20 ruth quark)
\par 3. This particle with a rest energy around 200 megaelectronvolts greatly extends the mean lives of particles that contain it, since it must be transformed }{\i\fs20 via}{\f53\fs20  the weak force in order to decay. The \'d9}{\fs20\super -}{\fs20  [\'93
omega minus\'94] hyperon consists of three of these.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul s}{\fs20 trange quark
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {3. Answer each of the following about a certain Scholastic and his work for ten points.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 1. This Dominican Angelic Doctor was nicknamed \'93The Fat Ox\'94 in his youth. In spite of kidnappi
ng by his family, he became the \'93foremost\'85 Theologian\'94 of Roman Catholicism.
\par \tab Answer: St. Thomas }{\b\fs20\ul Aquinas}{\fs20 
\par 2. Aquinas is best known for this long work in three parts and a supplement, in which he \'93propose[s]\'85 to treat of whatever belongs to the Christian religion\'85\'94 
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\i\fs20\ul Summa}{\i\fs20  totius }{\b\i\fs20\ul theologica}{\i\fs20 e}{\fs20 
\par 3. This famous argument for the existence and primacy of god is invoked in the \'93Creation\'94 section of the first part of the }{\i\fs20 Summa Theologica}{\fs20 , which cites Romans 11:36 as justification.
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: the }{\b\fs20\ul uncaused cause}{\fs20  (or the }{\b\fs20\ul first cause}{\fs20  or the }{\b\fs20\ul prime mover}{\fs20  or the }{\b\fs20\ul 
efficient cause}{\fs20 ; accept reasonable, clear knowledge equivalents)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 4. Identify the following about the Holy Roman Empire for ten points each.
\par 1. This Hohenstaufen ruler tried to reestablish Imperial control in Italy, but was stymied by the Lombard League, which defeated his foces at Legnano in 1176. He died by drowning while on the 3}{\fs20\super rd}{\fs20  Crusade.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Frederick I}{\fs20  (or }{\b\fs20\ul Frederick Barbarossa}{\fs20 )
\par 2. This grandson of Ferdinand of Aragon was both King of Spain and Holy Roman Emperor from 1519-56. His reigns saw conflict with France in Italy, and the spread of Protestantism and accompanying religious wars.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Charles V}{\fs20  of the Holy Roman Empire (or }{\b\fs20\ul Charles I}{\fs20  of Spain)
\par 3. This family first gained the crown of the Holy Roman Empire with Rudolf I\rquote 
s election in 1273. Their position was strengthened by Maximilian I, and they held the throne of Austria until the abdication of Charles I, the son of Franz Josef, in 1918.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Hapsburg}{\fs20 s
\par 
\par 5. Name each of the following masterful low countrymen for ten points.
\par 1. This court painter of Burges is sometimes given credit for inventing the medium of oil painting. His works include }{\i\fs20 St. Francis Receiving the Stigmata;}{\fs20  }{\i\fs20 The Arnolfini Wedding;}{\fs20  and, with his brother Hubert, }{\i\fs20 T
he Ghent Altarpiece}{\fs20 .
\par \tab Answer: Jan }{\b\fs20\ul van Eyck}{\fs20 
\par 2. This Haarlem resident and possible disciple of Carel van Mander also had a painter brother, Dirk. His works include }{\i\fs20 Gypsy Girl}{\fs20 , }{\i\fs20 Jester with a Lute}{\fs20 , and }{\i\fs20 The Laughing Cavalier}{\fs20 .
\par \tab Answer: Franz }{\b\fs20\ul Hals}{\fs20 
\par 3. This multi-talented Fleming worked as a political ambassador and collaborated with van Dyck and Breughel. His own paintings include }{\i\fs20 The Descent from the Cross}{\fs20 , }{\i\fs20 The Rape of the Daughters of Leucippus}{\fs20 , }{\i\fs20 
The Four Evangelists}{\fs20 , and a series about Marie de\rquote  Medici.
\par \tab Answer: Peter Paul }{\b\fs20\ul Reubens}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 6. Identify the following related to the English Civil War from clues for ten points each.
\par 1. This English king fought the Civil War against the Parliamentary forces, but was eventually captured and executed in 1649.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Charles I}{\fs20  of England
\par 2. This commander of the Ironsides regiment was the most noted Parliamentary general and acted as Fairfax\rquote s second in command after the founding of the New Model Army. He would later become Lord Protector of England.
\par \tab Answer: Oliver }{\b\fs20\ul Cromwell}{\fs20 
\par 3. This June 1645 battle, in which Fairfax defeated Prince Rupert of the Rhine, was the climactic battle of the first phase of the Civil War. Less than a year later, Charles surrendered to the Scots.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Naseby}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 7. [Computational Math \endash  10 seconds per part] Suppose that a suspicious electronic device contains three black wires, two green wires, a red wire, and a white wire.
\par 1. (5 points) If an inept bomb squad technician cuts a wire at random, what is the probability that he cuts the red wire?
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul 1/7}{\fs20 
\par 2. (10 points) How many different ways could the criminal mastermind behind this device have chosen colors for the seven wires, given that he had access to red, white, green, and black sheaths?
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul 120}{\fs20  
\par 3. (15 points) Assuming that wires of the same color are indistinguishable, in how many different orders can the wires be cut?
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul 420}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 8. Answer each of the following questions about a certain empire for ten points.
\par 1. This empire evolved from the Eastern portion of the Roman Empire after the reforms of Diocletian. It was ruled from Constantinople.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Byzantine}{\fs20  Empire
\par 2. This deft Byzantine emperor ruled from 527-565 CE, and quelled the Nika revolt with the aid of his excellent general, Belisarius.
\par \tab Answer: Flavius }{\b\fs20\ul Justinian}{\fs20 us I (or }{\b\fs20\ul Petrus Sabbatius}{\fs20 )
\par 3. Justinian may be best known for this namesake work, which was largely complied by his advocate, Tribonian, and was first published in 529 CE.
\par \tab Answer: Justinian }{\b\fs20\ul Code}{\fs20  of Laws (or }{\b\i\fs20\ul Codex}{\i\fs20  Justinianus}{\fs20 )
\par 
\par 9. Name these American poets from clues about their works, for ten points each.
\par 1. This St. Louis native wrote the poems \'93To a Steam-Roller,\'94 \'93The Labors of Hercules,\'94 and \'93Poetry,\'94 which states of its subject \'93I, too, dislike it.\'94
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab Marianne Craig }{\b\fs20\ul Moore
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 2. This Chicagoan and Illinois poet laureate wrote the collections }{\i\fs20 A Street in Bronzeville}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 In the Mecca}{\fs20 , and the poems \'93
Annie Allen\'94 and \'93We Real Cool.\'94
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab Gwendolyn Elizabeth }{\b\fs20\ul Brooks}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 3. This member of a prestigious family authored the collections }{\i\fs20 What\rquote s O\rquote Clock?}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 Can Grande\rquote s Castle}{\fs20 
, and is famous for the poem the poem \'93Patterns.\'94
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20\ul A}{\fs20 my }{\b\fs20\ul Lowell}{ }{\fs20 (prompt on }{\b\fs20\ul Lowell}{\fs20 )}{
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 10. Name these anthropologists from works, for ten points each.
\par 1. The series }{\i\fs20 Mythologiques}{\fs20 , which includes }{\i\fs20 The Raw and the Cooked}{\fs20 .
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab Claude }{\b\fs20\ul L\'e9vi-Strauss}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 2. }{\i\fs20 Race, Language, and Culture}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 The Mind of Primitive Man}{\fs20 .
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab Franz }{\b\fs20\ul Boas}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 3. }{\i\fs20 Blackberry Winter}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 Coming of Age in Samoa}{\fs20 .
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab Margaret }{\b\fs20\ul Mead}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 11. Answer each of the following about a scientist and his work for ten points.
\par 1. This thin-skinned, alchemy-obsessed Englishman discovered the binomial theorem, the fundamentals of the calculus, and the inverse square distance principle of circular motion before beginning graduate school.
\par \tab Answer: Isaac }{\b\fs20\ul Newton
\par }{\fs20 2. This 1687 work is almost definitely Newton\rquote s best known, and states his theory of universal gravitation and three laws of motion in fluxion form. It arose from a challenge by Robert Hooke and request from Edmond Halley.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\fs20 Philosophiae Naturalis }{\b\i\fs20\ul Principia Mathematica
\par }{\fs20 3. Newton\rquote s two-volume work on this subject resulted from his tracts \'93Of Color\'94 and \'93Hypothesis of Light.\'94 In this work, Newton attempts to explain the diffraction, reflection, and aberration of light }{\i\fs20 via}{\fs20 
 an ethereal corpuscular hypothesis.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\i\fs20\ul Optiks}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 12. Identify the American play from clues for ten points each.
\par 1. Written in response to McCarthyism this Arthur Miller play centers on the Salem Witch Trials and the central relationship of John Proctor and Abigail Williams.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\fs20 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul Crucible}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {2. At the end of this Eugene O\rquote 
Neill play, Theodore Hickman, or Hickey, reveals to the denizens of Harry Hope\rquote s tavern that he has just killed his wife.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\i\fs20 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul Iceman Cometh}{\fs20 
\par 3. This Tennessee Williams play focuses on the stressed relationship of Brick and Maggie while they are visiting Big Daddy, father of the former.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\i\fs20\ul Cat on a Hot Tin Roof}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 13. Name these vitamins, for ten points each.
\par 1. This is also called retinol, and is used in making visual pigments. A deficiency in this vitamin results in night blindness and flaky skin, and nobody wants those.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul A}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 2. Part of the coenzymes NAD}{\fs20\super +}{\fs20  and NADP}{\fs20\super +}{\fs20 
, a lack of this vitamin can result in pellagra and inflammation of nerves, which are no fun for anyone.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul B}{\b\fs20\ul\sub 3}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20\ul niacin}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 3. This fat-soluble vitamin is crucial to blood clotting and repairing wounds in the skin, if you have any.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul K}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 14. Identify the Roman poets from clues for ten points each.
\par 1. This member of Maecenas\rquote s literary circle wrote the }{\i\fs20 Ecologues}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 Georgics}{\fs20 , but is best remembered for his epic of Rome\rquote s origins, }{\i\fs20 The Aeneid}{\fs20 .
\par \tab Answer: Publius }{\b\fs20\ul Vergil}{\fs20 ius Maro
\par 2. Anther member of Maecenas\rquote s literary group was this poet known for his }{\i\fs20 Ars Poetica}{\fs20 , his }{\i\fs20 Carmen Saeculara}{\fs20 , and, most famously, his books of }{\i\fs20 Odes}{\fs20 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Horace}{\fs20  (or Quintus }{\b\fs20\ul Horatius}{\fs20  Flaccus)
\par 3. This author of }{\i\fs20 The Art of Love}{\fs20  was exiled to the Black Sea by Augustus. His most famous work is probably }{\i\fs20 The Metamorphoses}{\fs20 .
\par \tab Answer: Publius }{\b\fs20\ul Ovid}{\fs20 ius Naso
\par 
\par 15. Name each of the following syncretic religions native to the Americas for ten points.
\par 1. This Haitian faith effectively centers around worship of }{\i\fs20 loa}{\fs20 , many of whom correspond to Catholic saints, conducted by a }{\i\fs20 mambo}{\fs20  or }{\i\fs20 houngan}{\fs20 . Its name means \'93god\'94 in the Fon language.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Voodoo}{\fs20  (or }{\b\fs20\ul Voudou}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20\ul Vodun}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20\ul Vaudoux}{\fs20 )
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 2. The common name for this Yoruba-based religion comes from the Spanish term for its clerics. It focuses on the creation of a good relationship with the }{\i\fs20 
orishas}{\fs20 , who include Elegu\'e1 and Shang\'f3, through ceremonies called }{\i\fs20 bemb\'e9s}{\fs20 .
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Santeria}{\fs20  (or La }{\b\fs20\ul Regla de Ochau}{\fs20  or The }{\b\fs20\ul Order of}{\fs20  the }{\b\fs20\ul Orishas}{\fs20  or La Religi
\'f3n }{\b\fs20\ul Lucum\'ed}{\fs20  or The Order of the }{\b\fs20\ul Lucam\'ed}{\fs20 )
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 3. Candombl\'e9 and Umbanda are the biggest sects of this Brazilian religion, whose interesting facets include the offering of cigars to saints like Ogum and Iemanj
\'e1.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Macumba}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 16. Name these cool effects that water has for ten points each.
\par 1. Due to its polarity, water is attracted to other polar molecules. This is the name given to water\rquote s attraction to itself.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20\ul cohesion}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {2. At the interface of 
air and water, all of the hydrogen bonds in water face downward, resulting in this phenomenon, which allows small insects to walk on water.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20\ul surface tension}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 3. The adhesion force of water to the surface of a glass tube is stronger than gravity, meaning that the water will rise up into the glass tube away from the surrounding water.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20\ul capillary action}{\fs20  (accept }{\b\fs20\ul capillarity}{\fs20  or other clear-knowledge equivalents)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 17. Name the following Asian rivers for ten points each
\par 1. This river of Southeast Asia flows through Vientiane and Phnom Penh and is the 12}{\fs20\super th}{\fs20  longest river in the world.
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Mekong}{\fs20  River (or }{\b\i\fs20\ul M\'e9k\'f4ngh}{\fs20  or }{\b\i\fs20\ul M\'e8nam Khong}{\fs20  or }{\b\i\fs20\ul Mae Nam Khong}{\fs20 
 or }{\b\i\fs20\ul S\'f4ng Ti\'ean Giang}{\fs20  or }{\b\i\fs20\ul Lancang Jiang}{\fs20  or }{\b\i\fs20\ul Lan-ts\rquote ang Chiang}{\fs20 )
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {2. This flood-prone river is known as \'93China\rquote s Sorrow;\'94
 is the second-longest river in that country; flows through Jinan; and ends at Po Hai, or the Gulf of Chili.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Yellow}{\fs20  River (or }{\b\i\fs20\ul Huang Ho}{\fs20  or }{\b\i\fs20\ul 
Hwang Ho}{\fs20  or }{\b\i\fs20\ul Huang He}{\fs20 )
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {3. This principal river of Pakistan is about 2,900 kilometers in length and wa
s once home to an eponymous civilization.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul Indus}{\fs20  River
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 18. Name each of the following architectural giants of the Renaissance for ten points.
\par 1. This powerful Florentine and subject of a biography by Manetti designed the Pazzi Chapel and the cupola, or dome, of the Florence cathedral Santa Maria del Fiore.
\par \tab Answer: Filippo }{\b\fs20\ul Brunelleschi}{\fs20 
\par 2. This architect from Urbino and chief apostle of the High Renaissance designed the Belvidere Court of the Vatican and served as the chief planner for Julius II\rquote s rebuilding project for St. Peter\rquote s after 1506.
\par \tab Answer: Danato }{\b\fs20\ul Bramante}{\fs20 
\par 3. This 16}{\fs20\super th}{\fs20  century designer is known for his own buildings; including the }{\i\fs20 Villa Cornaro}{\fs20 , }{\i\fs20 Villa Marcello}{\fs20 , and }{\i\fs20 Villa Rotunda}{\fs20 ; and for his treatise, }{\i\fs20 
The Four Books of Architecture}{\fs20 .
\par \tab Answer: Andrea }{\b\fs20\ul Palladio}{\fs20  (or Andrea di Pietro della }{\b\fs20\ul Gondola}{\fs20 )
\par 
\par 
\par 19. Identify these writers from the northern Renaissance from clues for ten points each.
\par 1. This humanist writer advocated a religious outlook he called \'93The Philosophy of Christ\'94 but is best known for his work }{\i\fs20 In Praise of Folly}{\fs20 .
\par \tab Answer: Desiderius }{\b\fs20\ul Erasmus}{\fs20 
\par 2. The \'93Apology for Raimond Sabond\'94 is found in this Frenchman\rquote s innovative collection of moral musing entitled }{\i\fs20 The Essays}{\fs20 .
\par \tab Answer: Michel de }{\b\fs20\ul Montaigne}{\fs20 
\par 3. This onetime Franciscan and then doctor is best known for a satirical work following the lives of a father and son entitled }{\i\fs20 Gargantua and Pantagruel}{\fs20 .
\par \tab Answer: Fran\'e7ois }{\b\fs20\ul Rabelais}{\fs20  (or Alcofribas }{\b\fs20\ul Nasier}{\fs20 )
\par 
\par 20. Identify the following about a corporate battle in Russia for ten points each.
\par 1. Critics claim that this Russian president is attempting to rescind the free-market reforms of the post-Soviet era as a means to solidify his political control over the nation.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: Vladimir }{\b\fs20\ul Putin}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 2. The Kremlin announced the \'93discovery\'94 of several years\rquote  wo
rth of unpaid taxes as a means of leveraging ownership of the giant Yukos corporation, which is Russia\rquote s largest producer of what commodity?
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul oil}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20\ul petroleum}{\fs20  (accept equivalents)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 3. What principle owner of Yukos has claimed that his company was targeted because he attempted to run for president against Putin in the spring 2004 elections?
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: Mikhail }{\b\fs20\ul Khodorkovsky}{\fs20 
\par }}