{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}
{\f53\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f54\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f56\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f57\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f58\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Jason Hong}{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min3}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min9}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2260}{\nofchars12886}
{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws15824}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1200 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale120\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f6\cgrid0 FINAL
\par 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Packet by V. Jejjala
\par 
\par 1.  He slays Mezentius, Lausas, and Turnus in battle.  The son of Aphrodite and Anchises, his son Ascanius founds the city Alba Longa, and his departure from Carthage causes the lovesick Dido to commit suicide. FTP, name this hero of Vergil's _Aeneid_.

\par Answer:   _Aeneas_
\par 
\par 2.  Discovered by M. Bousard near Fort Saint Julien, Thomas Young and Joseph Fourier both tried
 and failed to make any sense out of it.  About 1.2 meters long and 0.75 meters wide, its mysteries were unlocked by Jean Francois Champollion.  FTP, name this tablet inscribed in demotic, Greek, and hieroglyphic.
\par Answer:  _Rosetta Stone_
\par 
\par 3.  Born in Sali
nas, California, this man won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1962.  He is known for short stories such as "The Red Pony" and novels like _Tortilla Flat_, _Cannery Row_, and _East of Eden_.  FTP, name this author of _Of Mice and Men_ and _The Grapes of 
Wrath_.
\par Answer:  John _Steinbeck_
\par 
\par 4.  There are two subclasses:  monocotyledons and dicotyledons. They have sophisticated mechanisms to ensure pollination and fertilization take place and that the resulting seeds are readily dispersed and able to germinate
.  FTP, name this class of seedbearing plants characterized by having seeds that develop completely enclosed in the tissue of the parent plant that encompasses the flowering plants.
\par Answer:  _angiosperm_
\par 
\par 5.  It contains the Bitterroot and Sawtooth ranges 
of the Rocky Mountains, Craters of the Moon National Monument, and Hell's Canyon on the Snake River.  It shares Yellowstone National Park with Montana and Wyoming.  FTP, name this state, whose major cities are Pocatello and Boise.
\par Answer:  _Idaho_
\par 
\par 6.  Aft
er a period of study in Amsterdam, he returned to Leiden, his birthplace, in 1625, where he began his series of nearly 100 self-portraits.  He spent the last 20 years of his life in financial ruin, painting such masterpieces as _The Polish Rider_, _The Sy
ndics of the Cloth Guild_.  FTP, name this Dutch artist of _Aristotle Contemplating the Bust of Homer_.
\par Answer:  _Rembrandt_ Harmenszoon van Rijn
\par 
\par 7.  It permitted the government to break up large business combinations that act monopolistically to suppress 
competition and free trade.  This legislation was supplemented by the Robinson-Patman Act of 1936 and the Clayton Act of 1914.  FTP, name this 1890 act named for the Republican senator and secretary of the treasury who also introduced a silver purchase ac
t.
\par Answer:  John _Sherman Anti-Trust_ Act
\par 
\par 8.  The relativistic variety of this effect is an artifact of time dilation and has no classical analog.  The standard variety's optical manifestation is important in the astronomical measurement and analysis of re
dshift.  FTP, name this effect, which describes the change observed in the wavelength of an electromagnetic or sonic wavefront produced by the relative motion of the source and the observer.
\par Answer:  Johann Christian _Doppler_ Effect
\par 
\par 9.  Born i
n the same year as Shakespeare, he was killed in 1593 by a man named Ingram Frazer.  His nondramatic works include the long poem _Hero and Leander_ and the lyric "Come live with me and be my love", but he is best known for his plays.  FTP, name this autho
r of _Tamburlaine the Great_, _Edward II_, and _The Jew of Malta_.
\par Answer:  Christopher _Marlowe_
\par 
\par 10.  He persuaded the leaders of the July Revolution to accept Louis-Phillipe as their monarch, and he create the modern French flag in 1789.  FTP, name this 
French statesman and general known as the "Hero of the Worlds" who served with George Washington at Brandywine, Valley Forge, and in the Yorktown Campaign.
\par Answer:  Marquis de _Lafayette_
\par 
\par 11.  A mildly addictive drug, it is also called trimethylxanthine. 
 With chemical formula C8H10N4O2, it is an alkaloid that stimulates the central nervous system and heart and functions as a diuretic.  It increases alertness and in excess may produce insomnia.  FTP, name this substance found in cocoa, tea, coffee, and ma
ny beverage sodas.
\par Answer:  _caffeine_
\par 
\par 12.  His sword is Ar'ondight and his castle is called the Joyous Gard.  The son of King Ban of Benwick and the father of Sir Galahad by Elaine, he is the queen's champion and is said to have had an affair with Guineve
re.  FTP, name this man, the favorite of King Arthur and the greatest of the knights of the Round Table.
\par Answer:  Sir _Launcelot_ du Lac
\par 
\par 13.  Beginning at the end of telophase, it compartmentalizes the two nuclei resulting from mitosis into separate daugh
ter cells.  In animal cells, it occurs with the formation of a constriction in the middle of the parent cell until two daughter cells are produced.  In plants, it occurs through the assembly of a new cell membrane and cell wall.  FTP, name this process th
at refers to the division and segregation of cytoplasmic material.
\par Answer:  _cytokinesis_
\par 
\par 14.  A romance of medieval times, it includes such characters as Captain Phoebus de Chateaupeurs, the playwright Pierre Gringoire, and the archdeacon Claude Frollo.  
Frollo denounces a gypsy girl as a witch, a mob pursues the girl Esmerelda, and the deformed bellringer Quasimodo shelters her in the belfry of the Parisiancathedral.  FTP, name this novel by Victor Hugo.
\par Answer:  _The Hunchback of Notre Dame_ or _Notre Dame de Paris_
\par 
\par 15.  The original was a short street near Trafalgar Square, while the new one was built close by on the Thames embankment near Westminster Bridge.  Fictional characters in its employ include Sherlock Holmes' associate Inspector Lestrade.  FTP
, name this edifice, the headquarters of the Criminal Investigation Department of the London Metropolitan Police.
\par Answer:  _Scotland Yard_
\par 
\par 16.  Influenced by Masonic themes, this singspiel features a libretto by Emanuel Schikaneder and tells of the confro
ntation between Sarastro and the Queen of Night.  The object referred to in the title is owned by Tamino, and it charms all manner of living things within earshot and renders them harmless.  FTP, name this great German work by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart.

\par Answer:  _Die Zauberflote_ or _The Magic Flute_
\par 
\par 17.  The title character's last words are "God bless Captain Vere".  The captain, who loves the title character, decides that his first obligation is to preserve order and orders the child hanged for killing the
 evil master-at-arms Claggert.  FTP, name this novella by Herman Melville.
\par Answer:  _Billy Budd_, Foretopman
\par 
\par 18.  In Benton v. Maryland, the Supreme Court ruled that this principle was applicable to the states through the "due process" clause of the fourteenth amendment.  It holds that neither federal or state officers can appeal a verdict of acquittal, but the 
accused may appeal a verdict of guilty in criminal and civil proceedings.  FTP, name this principle embodied in the fifth amendment that protects a person against being tried for the same charge twice.
\par Answer:  _Double Jeopardy_
\par 
\par 19.  An entity that exhibit
s the type I variety of this phenomena can be considered a perpetual motion machine of the third kind.  The condition causes applied magnetic fields to be canceled by the magnetization they produce and leads to a state of perfect diamagnetism.  Bardeen, C
ooper, and Schriefer developed a theory to explain the phenomenon.  FTP, name this low-temperature effect that occurs when metals conduct electricity with zero resistance.
\par Answer:  _superconductivity_
\par 
\par 20.  About eight times as long as the Iliad and the Ody
ssey put together, it makes the pretentious claim that what is not to be found in its pages is not to be found anywhere else in the world.  It tells of the five Pandava brothers, their wife Draupadi, and their epic war with the Kauravas for ascension to t
he throne, and contains the Bhagavad Gita.  FTP, name this great Indian epic and encyclopedic survey of Hindu life.
\par Answer:  _Mahabharata_
\par \page 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Bonuses
\par Packet by V. Jejjala
\par 
\par 1.  Identify the authors of the following long poems FFP each.
\par 1.  _The Rime of the Ancient Mariner_
\par Answer:  Samuel Taylor _Coleridge_
\par 2.  _The Song of Hiawatha_
\par Answer:  Henry Wadsworth _Longfellow_
\par 3.  _Faust_
\par Answer:  Johann Wolfgang von _Goethe_
\par 4.  "The Phoenix and the Turtle"
\par Answer:  William _Shakespeare_
\par 5.  "In Memoriam"
\par Answer:  Alfred, Lord _Tennyson_
\par 6.  _Don Juan_ and _Childe Harold's Pilgrimage_
\par Answer:  George Gordon Lord _Byron_
\par 
\par 2.  Identify the following gods of the Romans, 10 each:
\par 1.  This founder of Rome was deified and given the name Quirinus.
\par Answer:  _Romulus_
\par 2.  This two-faced god presided over doorways.
\par Answer:  _Janus_
\par 3.  This was the Roman name of Hestia, in whose service virgins were employed as priestesses.
\par Answer:  _Vesta_
\par 
\par 3.  Identify the American historical figure from his pithy quote for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5 pts:  "We have met the enemy and they are ours."
\par Answer:  Oliver Hazard _Perry_
\par 2.  5 pts:  "Damn the torpedoes.  Full speed ahead."
\par Answer:  David Glasgow _Farragut_
\par 3.  10 pts:  "You may fire when ready, Gridley."
\par Answer:  George _Dewey_
\par 4.  10 pts:  "Old soldiers never die.  They just fade away."
\par Answer:  Douglas _MacArthur_
\par 
\par 4.  Identify these scientists on a 10-5 basis.
\par 1.  10 pts:  He discovered lysozyme and shared the 1945 Nobel Prize in physiology or medicine.
\par 5 pts:  He also discovered penicillin.
\par Answer:  Sir Alexander _Fleming_
\par 2.  10 pts:  This discoverer of the binomial theorem and the method of fluxions served for a time as Warden of the Royal Mint.
\par 5 pts:  His _Principia_ is thought to be the greatest scientific treatise ever written.
\par Answer:  Isaac _Newton_
\par 3.  10 pts:  In 1905 he published papers that accounted for Brownian motion through the existence of atoms.  He won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1921.
\par 5 pts:  He developed the special theory of relativity while working as a Swiss patent clerk.
\par Answer:  Albert _Einstein_
\par 
\par 5.  Name the authors of the following works, 10 each:
\par 1.  _The Devil and Daniel Webster_
\par Answer:  Stephen Vincent _Benet_
\par 2.  _Cabbages and Kings_ and _The Gift of the Magi_
\par Answer:  William Sidney Porter or _O Henry_
\par 3.  _One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest_
\par Answer:  Ken Elton _Kesey_
\par 
\par 6.  Given three battles from a random war, put them in chronological order from earliest to latest FTP each.
\par 1.  Agincourt, Poitiers, Crecy
\par Answer:  _Crecy_ (1346), _Poitiers_ (1360), _Agincourt_ (1415)
\par 2.  Vicksburg, First Bull Run, Antietam
\par Answer:  _First Bull Run_ (1861), _Antietam_ (1862), _Vicksburg_ (July 1863)
\par 3.  El Alamein, Normandy, Pearl Harbor
\par Answer:  _Pearl Harbor_ (1941), _El Alamein_ (1942), _Normandy_ (1944)
\par 
\par 7.  Given the principal deity or a set of deities, name the religion for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5 pts:  Brahma, Vishnu, Shiva
\par Answer:  _Hindu_ism
\par 2.  10 pts:  Huitzilpochtli, Quetzalcoatl, Tezcatlipoca
\par Answer:  _Aztec_
\par 3.  15 pts:  Ahura Mazda or Ormuzd
\par Answer:  _Zoroastrian_ism
\par 
\par 8.  Given a genus/species name identify the lifeform FTP each.
\par 1.  Drosophila melanogaster
\par Answer:  _fruitfly_
\par 2.  Panthera leo
\par Answer:  _lion_
\par 3.  Pan troglodytus
\par Answer:  _chimp_anzee
\par 
\par 9.  Given the stipulations of an amendment to the U.S. Constitution, name it for 10 points each:
\par 1.  Instituted the income tax.
\par Answer:  _16th_
\par 2.  Abolished the poll tax.
\par Answer:  _24th_
\par 3.  Direct election of senators.
\par Answer:  _17th_
\par 
\par 10.  Name the Hawthorne work from a brief description FTP each.
\par 1.  The curse of Matthe
w Maule, hanged for witchcraft, and the humble owner of the titular edifice curses Colonel Pyncheon with the words "God will give him blood to drink."  The curse reverberates through the generations and affects the Colonel's descendants.
\par Answer:  _The House of Seven Gables_
\par 2.  In the novel's climax, Roger Chillingsworth succeeds in frustrating the escape of Hester Prynne, Arthur Dimmsdale, and Pearl.
\par Answer:  _The Scarlet Letter_
\par 3.  Named after a stone statue by Praxiteles, the Italian Count Donatello kills the lovely Miriam's strange pursuer Antonio.
\par Answer:  _The Marble Faun_
\par 
\par 11.  Identify the architects of the following buildings FTP each.
\par 1.  Fallingwater and Taliesin
\par Answer:  Frank Lloyd _Wright_
\par 2.  most of the dome of St. Peter's in Rome
\par Answer:  _Michelangelo_ Buonarotti
\par 3.  Church of San Lorenzo in Florence, Dome to the Florentine Cathedral
\par Answer:  Filipo _Brunelleschi_
\par 
\par 12.  Given a list of operas, identify the man who composed them FTP each.
\par 1.  _La Traviata_, _Il Trovatore_
\par Answer:  Giuseppe _Verdi_
\par 2.  _Anna Bolena_ and _Lucia di Lammermoor_
\par Answer:  Gaetano _Donizetti_
\par 3.  _Tannhauser_, _Lohengrin_, _Parsifal_
\par Answer:  Richard _Wagner_
\par 
\par 13.  Find the areas of the following figures FTP each.  You'll get 10 seconds per part.
\par 1.  A triangle with sides of 5, 12, and 13
\par Answer:  _30_
\par 2.  A circle with circumference 8 pi
\par Answer:  _16 pi_
\par 3.  A trapezoid with parallel sides of 5 and 9 and height 4
\par Answer:  _28_
\par 
\par 14.  Identify the playwrights of the following FFP each.
\par 1.  The Three Sisters
\par Answer:  Anton _Chekov_
\par 2.  A Doll's House
\par Answer:  Henrik _Ibsen_
\par 3.  The Importance of Being Earnest
\par Answer:  Oscar _Wilde_
\par 4.  _The Rivals_ and _School for Scandal_
\par Answer:  Richard Brinsley _Sheridan_
\par 5.  Oedipus Rex
\par Answer:  _Sophocles_
\par 6. The Clouds
\par Answer:  _Aristophanes_
\par 
\par 15.  Identify the nineteenth century Supreme Court decision from a brief description for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  Chief Justice John Marshall used this 1803 case to establish judicial review.
\par Answer:  _Marbury v. Madison_
\par 2.  In 1819 the Court rules that the power to charter a bank was implied from Congress' power over federal fiscal operations.
\par Answer:  _McCulloch v. Maryland_
\par 3.  In 1866 the Court decides that a civilian cannot be tried, even in wartime, by military courts if civil courts are functional.
\par Answer:  _Ex Parte Milligan_
\par 
\par 16.  FTP each give the chemical names of the following compounds.
\par 1.  HClO
\par Answer:  _hydrogen hypochlorite_
\par 2.  NH4CN
\par Answer:  _ammonium cyanide_
\par 3.  CaCr2O7
\par Answer:  _calcium dichromate_
\par 
\par 17.  Given some famous lines identify the poet FTP.  If you need the name of the poem, you are awarded five points. 
\par 1.  10 pts:  "The sea is calm to night  / The tide is full, the moon lies fair / upon the straits..."
\par For 5 points:  "Dover Beach"
\par Answer:  Matthew _Arnold_
\par 2.  10 pts:  "Far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife / Their sober wishes never learned to stray."
\par 5 pts:  "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard" 
\par Answer:  Thomas _Gray_
\par 3.  10 pts:  "I was a child and she was a child, / In this kingdom by the sea, / But we loved with a love that was more than love."
\par 5 pts:  "Annabel Lee"
\par Answer:  Edgar Allen _Poe_
\par 
\par 18.  Given the astronomical observation, identify the man credited with its discovery for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5 pts:  discovery of Pluto
\par Answer:  Percival _Lowell_
\par 2.  5 pts:  discovery of Uranus
\par Answer:  William _Herschel_
\par 3.  10 pts:  computation of the orbit of Ceres
\par Answer:  Carl Friedrich _Gauss_
\par 4.  10 pts:  discovery of a gap in Saturn's rings
\par Answer:  Giovanni _Cassini_
\par 
\par 19.  Name the President of the United States when the following events occurred for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5 pts:  Napoleon is defeated at Waterloo.
\par Answer:  James _Madison_ (1815)
\par 2.  5 pts:  Franz Ferdinand II is assassinated.
\par Answer:  Woodrow _Wilson_ (1914)
\par 3.  10 pts:  Spanish Civil War begins.
\par Answer:  Frankiln Delano _Roosevelt_ or _FDR_ (1936)
\par 4.  10 pts:  Sputnik is launched.
\par Answer:  Dwight David _Eisenhower_ (1957)
\par 
\par 20.  Given a nation, name its capital FFP each.
\par 1.  Benin
\par Answer:  _Porto Novo_
\par 2.  Bangladesh
\par Answer:  _Dhaka_
\par 3.  Belarus
\par Answer:  _Minsk_
\par 4.  Bhutan
\par Answer:  _Thimphu_
\par 5.  Belgium
\par Answer:  _Brussels_
\par 6.  Brunei
\par Answer:  _Bandar Seri Begawan_
\par }}