{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}
{\f53\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f54\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f56\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f57\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f58\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Jason Hong}{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min3}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min9}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2014}{\nofchars11483}
{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws14101}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1200 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale118\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f6\cgrid0 QUARTERFINALS
\par 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Packet 3 by David Hamilton
\par 
\par 1.  She became the youngest American to win the Best Play Award from the NewYork Drama Critics' Circle with her first play, which concerned a black family seeking passage out of the Chicago ghetto.  FTP, who is this author of _The Sign in Sidney Brustein'
s Window_ and _A Raisin in the Sun_?
\par Answer: Lorraine _Hansberry_
\par 
\par 2.  He became infuriated with the British when they seized his ship, the Liberty, because he had unloaded a cargo of Madeira wine without paying import duties.  He worked closely with Samuel
 Adams, and served as presiding officer of the first two Continental Congresses.  FTP, name this man who said, "There, I guess King George will be able to read that" as he signed his name to the Declaration of Independence.
\par Answer:  John _Hancock_
\par 
\par 3.  FAQTP, what is the integral from X=2 to X=4 of the quantity 3+2*X (read: 3
\par plus 2 X)?
\par Answer: _18_
\par 
\par 4.  The title character falls in love with Aleksei Vronski, a handsome young officer, and abandons her child and husband to be with him. When she thinks Vronsk
i has tired of her, she commits suicide by leaping under a train. FTP, what is this work by Leo Tolstoy?
\par Answer: _Anna Karenina_
\par 
\par 5.  At the age of 33, when he had an income of $50,000, he vowed to spend the anything he might earn beyond that on "benevolen
t purposes."  Born in Dunfermline, Scotland, he sold his company in 1901 for $250 million, and founded many libraries.  FTP, name this philanthropist and steel magnate.
\par Answer:  Andrew _Carnegie_
\par 
\par 6.  In this geologic period, North America and Africa separ
ate and ocean basins open. The first birds appear, and gymnosperms are the dominating flora. FTP, what is this period of the Mesozoic era, occurring from 195-140 million years ago, between the Triassic and Cretaceous periods?
\par Answer: _Jurassic_ period
\par 
\par 7. 
 During the Civil War, this American artist was sent to army encampments to record events in paintings like _Prisoners From the Front_. His later works, like _Fox Hunt_ and _The Life-Line_, show confrontation with the forces of nature. FTP, who is this pa
inter of _Snap the Whip_ and _The Gulf Stream_?
\par Answer: Winslow _Homer_
\par 
\par 8.  In this stage, the chromosomes of a cell are arranged on the equatorial plane of the spindle. The centromere of each pair of twin chromatids splits, and each chromatid becomes an independent chromosome. FTP, what
\par is this stage of mitosis between prophase and anaphase?
\par Answer: _Metaphase_
\par 
\par 9.  In 1911, this social reformer founded the National Federation of Settlements and shared the Nobel Peace Prize with Nicholas Butler twenty years later. FTP, who was this feminist and reformer who founded Hull House in 1899?
\par Answer: Jane _Addams_
\par 
\par 10.  Originally composed for the dancer Ida Rubenstein, this work was the music with which Torville and Dean won an Olympic gold medal in ice-dancing.  
Composed in 1928, it daringly repeats the same musical phrase with little variation until the end.  FTP, name this musical work by Maurice Ravel.
\par Answer:  _Bolero_
\par 
\par 11.  Commussioned by Emanuel, King of Portugal, he sailed from Lisbon in 1497 and like Bart
olomeu Dias, rounded the Cape of Good Hope, anchoring on the east coast of Africa.  He reached Calicut the next year.  FTP, name this Portuguese explorer, the first European to reach India by sea.
\par Answer:  Vasco da _Gama_
\par 
\par 12.  In 1829, while visiting Engl
and, Sir Walter Scott took this composer on a tour of Scotland, giving him inspiration for the Hebrides overture and his "Scottish" symphony. FTP, who is this composer of _Songs Without Words_, the _Midsummer Night's Dream_ overture, and the "Italian" Sym
phony?
\par Answer: Jakob Ludwig Felix _Mendelssohn_-Bartholdy
\par 
\par 13.  This physicist invented the gyroscope and calculated the speed of light to within 1% of the modern measurement using a cogged wheel. FTP, who is this Frenchman who showed that the earth rotates by using his pendulum?
\par Answer: Jean Bernard Leon _Foucault_
\par 
\par 14.  _The White Peacock_, _Aaron's Rod_, _Kangaroo_, _"The Rocking Horse Winner"_, and _The Prussian Officer_ are all works which English author of_Women in Love_, _Lady Chatterley's Lover_, and _Sons and Lovers_?
\par Answer: David Herbert _Lawrence_
\par 
\par 15.  In one legend, this city was founded by the twins Amphion and Zethus, and was named after Zethus' wife. In the more famous one, Cadmus followed a cow until it lay down in southern Boeotia (be-oh-sh
i-a), and built his city there. FTP, what was this city ruled by Creon and Oedipus?
\par Answer: _Thebes_
\par 
\par 16.  As a result of this project, the Abu Simbel temples built by Ramses II had to be moved to higher ground. Completed in 1970, it is 375 feet high and f
orms the world's second largest artificial lake. FTP, what is this Egyptian dam which controls the floodwaters of the Nile?
\par Answer: _Aswan High_ Dam
\par 
\par 17.  The title of this novel refers to a wound received when a fellow soldier strikes Henry Fleming's head with the butt of a gun. FTP, what is this Civil War novel written by Stephen Crane?
\par Answer: The _Red Badge of Courage_
\par 
\par 18.  This Englishman wrote illustrated travel books like _Journal of a Landscape Painter in Greece an Albania_, but is better known for his limericks and nonsense verse collected in books like _Laughable Lyrics_. FTP, who is this author of "The Owl and th
e Pussycat"?
\par Answer: Edward _Lear_
\par 
\par 19.  Battles in this war included Lutzen and White Mountain, and it was divided into the French phase, Palatine-Bohemian phase, Danish phase, and the Swedish phase.  Among the generals who fought in it were Gustavus Adolp
hus and Wallenstein.  FTP, name this war ended by the Peace of Westphalia.
\par Answer:  The _Thirty Years' War_
\par 
\par 20.  In 1792, he was forbidden to teach or write on religious subjects by King Frederick William II of Prussia.  He divided propositions into empir
ical and "a priori" types, and set forth this view in "Critique of Pure Reason."  FTP, name this originator of the Categorical Imperative.
\par Answer:  Immanuel _Kant_
\par 
\par 21.  It started when Governor Robert Dinwiddie of Virginia sent an armed force under George
 Washington to fight the French at the Battle of Fort Necessity.  Later, General Edward Braddock was sent to take Fort Duquesne.  FTP, name this war, which was begun in America but expanded into  Europe as the Seven Year's War.
\par Answer:  The _French and Indian War_
\par \page 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Bonuses
\par Packet 3 by David Hamilton
\par 
\par 1.  Identify the author from works 30-20-10.
\par 30:  _Williwaw_ and _Thirsty Evil_
\par 20: _Lincoln_ and _1876_
\par 10: _Myra Breckinridge_ and _Burr_
\par Answer: Gore _Vidal_
\par 
\par 2.  Identify the planets orbited by the following moons, 5 each:
\par 1.  Titan
\par Answer:  _Saturn_
\par 2.  Phobos
\par Answer:  _Mars_
\par 3.  Iapetus
\par Answer:  _Saturn_
\par 4.  Callisto
\par Answer:  _Jupiter_
\par 5.  Oberon
\par Answer:  _Uranus_
\par 6.  Triton
\par Answer:  _Neptune_
\par 
\par 3.  Identify the American poets from works on a 10-5 basis.
\par 1.  For 10 points: "Telling the Bees" and "Maud Muller"
\par For 5 points: "Snow-Bound" and "Barbara Frietchie"
\par Answer: John Greenleaf _Whittier_
\par 2.  For 10 points:   "To a Waterfowl" and "Inscription for the Entrance to a Wood"
\par For 5 points:  "Thanatopsis"
\par Answer: William Cullen _Bryant_
\par 3.  For 10 points:  "Luke Havergal" and "The Man Against the Sky"
\par For 5 points:  "Richard Corey"
\par Answer: Edwin Arlington _Robinson_
\par 
\par 4.  Answer these questions about famous scientists, 10 each:
\par 1.  What man won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1921 for his work on the photo-electric effect?
\par Answer:  Albert _Einstein_
\par 2.  In 1905, Einstein originated the special theory of relativity, which helped to reconcile physics with the results of an experiment that used an interferometer.  This experiment was conducted by what two men?
\par Answer:  Albert _Michelson_ and Edward _Morley_
\par 
\par 5.  "I'm going to run till she leaves the rail -- or make it on time with the southbound mail."  So reads the inscription on a monument in Calvary Cemetery, Jackson, Tennessee.  Answer the following, 15 each:
\par 1.  First, the monument is the tombstone to what railroad man who died trying to stop his train, the Cannonball Express, from colliding with another train?
\par Answer:  _Casey Jones_ or John Luther Jones
\par 2.  The story of Casey Jones was recorded in a ballad printed in _The American Songbag_, a collection of poems assembled by what poet of "Cornhuskers" and "Chicago"?
\par Answer:  Carl _Sandburg_
\par 
\par 6.  Identify these Tennessee Williams plays from a partial list of characters FTP each.
\par a) "Big Daddy" Pollitt, Gooper, Brick
\par Answer: _Cat on a Hot Tin Roof_
\par b) Stanley Kowalski, Stella, Blanche DuBois
\par Answer: _A Streetcar Named Desire_
\par c) Laura Wingfield, Tom Wingfield, Jim O' Connor
\par Answer: _The Glass Menagerie_
\par 
\par 7.  Name the artists who painted the following works of art, 10 points each:
\par 1.  American Gothic
\par Answer:  Grant _Wood_
\par 2.  Portrait of Madame X
\par Answer:  John Singer _Sargent_
\par 3.  Luncheon on the Grass
\par Answer:  Eduard _Manet_
\par 
\par 8.  Answer the following about the capture of Fort Ticonderoga.
\par 1.  The demand for the British to "surrender in the name of the Great Jehovah and the Continental Congress" was issued by what Colonel of the rebel forces?
\par Answer:  Ethan _Allen_
\par 2.  In capturing Ticonderoga, Ethan Allen acted without the authorization of his commanding officer, whose treasonous correspondence was exposed by the capture of Major John Andre?
\par Answer:  Benedict _Arnold_
\par 3.  Fort Ticonderoga was located on what fourth-largest freshwater lake in the U.S. that straddles the boundary between New York and Vermont?
\par Answer:  Lake _Champlain_
\par 
\par 9.  Identify the following insect orders given a brief description FTP each.
\par 1. The true flies, this order includes mosquitoes, gnats, and house flies.
\par Answer: _Diptera_
\par 2. Insects in this order have two pairs of membranous wings interlocked in flight and are often social. Members include ants, bees, and wasps.
\par Answer: _Hymenoptera_
\par 3. Including the dragonflies and damselflies, members of this insectivorous order have chewing mouthparts and very large compound eyes.
\par Answer: _Odonata_
\par 
\par 10.  Identify these characters from Cervantes' _Don Quixote_ for the stated number of points.
\par 1. For 5 points, Don Quixote asks what pot-bellied rustic to be his squire, promising him the governship of the first lands they conquer?
\par Answer: Sancho _Panza_
\par 2. For 10 points, what peasant girl is the lady love of Don Quixote?
\par Answer: _Dulcinea_ del Toboso or Aldonza _Lorenzo_
\par 3. For 15 points, what was the name of Don Quixote's horse?
\par Answer: _Rocinante_
\par 
\par 11.  Identify the following unusual units of measure FTP each.
\par 1. A unit of length equal to 660 feet of 1/8 of a mile.
\par Answer: _furlong_
\par 2. Used for measuring wine, this is a two quart bottle. It was also the name of a character played by Tom Selleck in the 1980's.
\par Answer: _magnum_
\par 3. Used in surveying, this is a land measurement of approximately 36 square miles.
\par Answer: _township_
\par 
\par 12.  Given some minerals, identify their primary metallic ores FTP each.
\par 1. cinnibar
\par Answer: _mercury_
\par 2. malachite and chalcopyrite (kal-kuh-pie-rite)
\par Answer: _copper_
\par 3. sphalerite
\par Answer: _zinc_
\par 
\par 13.  Identify these 20th century architects for fifteen points each.
\par 1. Born in Berlin, this man transformed the Weimar School of Arts and Crafts into the Bauhaus, which he designed. He also designed the Fagus Shoe factory with Adolf Meyer.
\par Answer: Walter _Gropius_
\par 2. This man's design of the Chrysler Building in New York City is a masterpiece of the Art Deco style.
\par Answer: William _Van Alen_
\par 
\par 14.  Identify the composers of the following symphonies FTP each.
\par 1. The "Eroica" symphony, 1803
\par Answer: Ludwig van _Beethoven_
\par 2. _Symphonie fantastique_, 1830
\par Answer: Louis Hector _Berlioz_
\par 3. Symphony Pathetique, 1893
\par Answer: Pyotr Ilyich _Tchaikovsky_
\par 
\par 15.  Identify the Roman equivalents of the following Greek gods FTP each.
\par 1. Poseidon
\par Answer: _Neptune_
\par 2. Apollo
\par Answer: _Apollo_
\par 3. Hephaestus
\par Answer: _Vulcan_
\par 
\par 16.  Give the capitals of these former Soviet republics for five points each.
\par 1. Ukraine
\par Answer: _Kiev_ or _Kyiv_
\par 2. Georgia
\par Answer: _Tbilisi_
\par 3. Estonia
\par Answer: _Tallinn_
\par 4. Latvia
\par Answer: _Riga_
\par 5. Turkmenistan
\par Answer: _Ashkhabad_
\par 6. Kazakhstan
\par Answer: _Alma-Ata_
\par 
\par 17.  Identify the authors of the following Pulitzer Prize winning works FTP each.
\par a) _The Executioner's Song_ and _The Armies of the Night_
\par Answer: Norman _Mailer_
\par b) _So Big_
\par Answer: Edna _Ferber_
\par c) _The Magnificent Ambersons_ and _Alice Adams_
\par Answer: Newton Booth _Tarkington_
\par 
\par 18.  The 1906 Nobel Peace Prize went to Theodore Roosevelt.  Answer the following about it.
\par 1.  Roosevelt won for his efforts in mediating a September 5, 1905 treaty negotiation ending what war that included the battles of Port Arthur, Shenyang, and Tsushima?
\par Answer:  The _Russo-Japanese_ War
\par 2.  The Russo-Japanese War was ended by what treaty?
\par Answer:  The treaty of _Portsmouth_
\par 3.  By the treaty of Portsmouth, Russia evacuated what northeastern region of China?
\par Answer:  _Manchuria_
\par 
\par 19.  Identify the following keywords from the "C" programming language FTP each.
\par 1. This type specifier is used when a function does not return anything.
\par Answer: _void_
\par 2. A variable preceded with this keyword will retain its value even if its defining function is exited, unlike the default automatic variables.
\par Answer: _static_
\par 3. Like a structure, this type of data structure in C contains multiple elements; however, all the elements share the same storage area, so only one member can be used at a time.
\par Answer: _union_
\par 
\par 20.  30-20-10 Identify the journalist from clues.
\par 30) He used photography as a way of recording the social and economicinjustices in New York tenement slums in pictures like _Bandits' Roost_and _In Poverty Gap_.
\par 20) Born in Denmark in 1849, he became a police reporter on the New YorkTribune and New York Sun, and wrote a study of Theodore Roosevelt.
\par 10) His most famous work was the 1890 _How the Other Half Lives_, a description of immigrant poverty.
\par Answer: Jacob August _Riis_
\par }}