{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}
{\f53\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f54\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f56\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f57\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f58\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Jason Hong}{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min3}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min9}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages6}{\nofwords1909}{\nofchars10885}
{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws13367}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1200 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale116\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f6\cgrid0 Game 10
\par 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Packet 1 by David Hamilton
\par 
\par 1. His early works included _Precaution_ and _The Pilot_, but this American is most famous for his tales of Natty Bumppo in _The Leatherstocking Tales_. FTP, who is this author of _The Deerslayer_ and _The Last of the Mohicans_?
\par Answer: James Fenimore _Cooper_
\par 
\par 2. Independently of Legendre, this mathematician developed the method of least squares, and introduced the congruence notation in his 1801 _Disquisitiones Arithmeticae_, a masterpiece in the field of number theory. FTP, who was this 
German for whom the cgs unit of magnetic induction is named?
\par Answer: Carl Friedrich _Gauss_
\par 
\par 3. This term comes from the name of the governor of Massachusetts in 1812. The Republican dominated legislature redrew district lines to benefit their party, and a
 Federalist cartoon portrayed an oddly shaped district covering Essex County as a salamander. FTP, what is this term for the drawing of boundaries of legislative district to benefit one party?
\par Answer: _Gerrymander_ or _Gerrymandering_
\par 
\par 4. This Australian s
tate was governed by New South Wales until 1831, and became a federated state 70 years later. Containing much of the Great Sandy and Gibson deserts, one half of its population lives in its capital. FTP, what is this largest Australian state with capital a
t Perth?
\par Answer: _Western Australia_
\par 
\par 5. Born Gerrit Gerritszoon in 1466, this Dutch humanist's masterpiece was the _Colloquia_, a tract about church abuses. FTP, who was this Rotterdam native who wrote his _The Praise of Folly_ in 1509?
\par Answer: Desiderius _Erasmus_
\par 
\par 6. This body organ is located on the surface of the liver. Bile produced from the liver is stored here and is secreted when food enters the duodenum. FTP, what is this storage organ?
\par Answer: _gallbladder_
\par 
\par 7. Born Jean Baptiste Poquelin, this French dramatist died after taking part in the fourth performance of his last comedy, _The Imaginary Invalid_. FTP, who is this playwright of _The Imposter_, _The Misanthrope_, and _Tartuffe_?
\par Answer: _Moliere_
\par 
\par 8. Devised by an Admiral of the British Navy, 2 represents a light breeze, 6 a strong breeze, 8 a fresh gale, and 12 a hurricane. FTP, what is this 0 to 12 scale of wind velocity?
\par Answer: _Beaufort_ scale
\par 
\par 9. This composer spent the winter of 1838-39 on th
e island of Majorca with George Sand. They seperated in 1847, and he died in Paris two years later after a long bout with tuberculosis. FTP, who is this French composer of two piano concertos, preludes, polonaises, mazurkas, and the "Minute Waltz"?
\par Answer: Francois Frederic _Chopin_
\par 
\par 10. This revolt began in 1857 in the British Army in India. Bengali soldiers were angered by the issuing of cartridges coated in beef and pork fat, which violated Hindu and Muslim law. FTP, what was this rebellion which spread 
over north India that resulted in transfer of rule from the East India Company to the British crown?
\par Answer: _Sepoy_ Rebellion or _Indian Mutiny_
\par 
\par 11. This novel features the "Legend of the Grand Inquisitor," which expresses Ivan's religious doubts. FTP, what is this Fyodor Dostoyevsky work about Fyodor Pavlovich and his four sons Dmitry, Ivan, Aloysha, and Smerdyakov?
\par Answer: The _Brothers Karamazov_
\par 
\par 12. This artist studied under Michael Wolgemut in his native Nuremburg. He created scientific studies like
 _The Great Piece of Turf_, but is better known for his woodcuts and engravings like _The Fall of Man_ and the Apocalypse series. FTP, who is this artist of _The Four Horsemen_?
\par Answer: Albrecht _Durer_
\par 
\par 13. This god was also called "Argeiphontes" after sl
aying the hundred-eyed Argus that watched over Io. He invented the lyre and stole the cattle of his brother Apollo when he was only a few hours old. FTP, who is this protector of travellers, and thieves, the Roman equivalent of Mercury?
\par Answer: _Hermes_
\par 
\par 1
4. At John F. Kennedy's inauguration in 1961, this poet read his "The Gift Outright" during the ceremony. His collections include _A Witness Tree_ and _North of Boston_, which contained "Mending Wall" and "The Death of The Hired Man." FTP, who is this poe
t of "The Road Not Taken"?
\par Answer: Robert _Frost_
\par 
\par 15. In 1993 St John's defeated this team in the first round of the men's NCAA basketball Tournament.  This year, reserve guard Corey Carr was their second leading scorer behind forward Jason Sasser.  FTP, n
ame this school which was best known for it's women's basketball program until Darvin Ham broke a backboard in a second-round game against North Carolina.
\par Answer:  _Texas Tech_
\par 
\par 16. This American became the first governor of Louisiana in 1807. Earlier, he 
was the personal secretary to Thomas Jefferson, who invited him to lead an expedition in the west of the Mississippi with his long-time friend William Clark. FTP, who was this American explorer?
\par Answer: Meriwether _Lewis_
\par 
\par 17.  Manufactured by the VanMelle Corporation of the Netherlands, in 1994 it was voted by advertising professionals to have the worst ad campaign of the year.  Despite, or perhaps because of this, commercials such as "The Traffic Jam" and "The Broken Heel
" have achieved a cult following.  For ten points, name this candy, billed as "The Freshmaker." 
\par Answer:  _Mentos_
\par 
\par 18. The protagonist, a club-footed orphan, attempts to become an artist and gets entangled in an obsessive love affair with Mildred. After ye
ars of struggle as a medical student, he gives up his aspirations and becomes a country doctor. FTP, what is this Somerset Maughm about Philip Carey?
\par Answer: _Of Human Bondage_
\par 
\par 19. This Irishman, along with his assistant Robert Hooke, carried out experime
nts on air, combustion, and respiration. He wrote the _Sceptical Chymist_ in 1661, and a year later formulated his law that the volume of gas varies inversely with pressure. FTP, who was this chemist?
\par Answer: Robert _Boyle_
\par 
\par 20. This 1896 Supreme Court cas
e concerned a black passenger who refused to sit in a Jim Crow car. A New Orleans judge upheld the state law, but it was challenged in the Supreme Court. FTP, what was this case that upheld Louisiana's right to racially segregate "separate but equal" rail
way cars?
\par Answer: _Plessy v. Ferguson_
\par 
\par 21.  The frieze of the Parthenon represented these creatures locked in combat with the Lapiths.  Nessus was one, who carried off Heracles' wife Deianeira.  Another was Chiron, who served as tutor to many heroes.  FTP,
 what is this mythological creature, half man, half horse?
\par Answer:  A _Centaur_
\par \page 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Bonuses
\par Packet 1 by David Hamilton
\par 
\par 1. Identify the scientific names of the following human bones for 10 each.
\par a) Shoulder blade
\par Answer: _Scapula_
\par b) Collarbone
\par Answer: _Clavicle_
\par c) Upper arm bone
\par Answer: _Humerus_
\par 
\par 2. Identify the following poems from lines for ten points each, five if you need the poet.
\par a) 10) "Gather ye rosebuds while ye may, / Old time is still a-flying"
\par     5) Robert Herrick
\par Answer: _To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time_
\par b) 10) "Stone walls do not a prison make, / Nor iron bars a cage"
\par     5) Richard Lovelace
\par Answer: _To Althea, From Prison_
\par c) 10) "Thou wast not born for death, immortal Bird! / No hungry generations
\par \tab tread thee down"
\par     5) John Keats
\par Answer: _Ode to a Nightingale_
\par 
\par 3. 30-20-10 Identify the year from clues.
\par a) William Kemmler becomes the first man to be electrocuted, and Idaho and Wyoming are admitted to the union as the 43rd and 44th states.
\par b) The Sherman Antitrust Act is passed, Kaiser Wilhelm of Germany forces Bismarck to resign as Chancellor, and Sitting Bull is killed by U.S. troops.
\par c) The Battle of Wounded Knee takes place on December 29, and the U.S. Census records a population of over 62 million.
\par Answer: _1890_
\par 
\par 4. Identify these Egyptian gods FTP each.
\par a) Usually represented with the head of a falcon, this sun god was the supposed ancestor of all the Pharaohs.
\par Answer: _Ra_
\par b) Represented with the head of a jackal, this god was the guide to the region of dead, where their souls were judged by Osiris.
\par Answer: _Anubis_
\par c) The god of wisdom, he was the inventor of arts, sciences, and hieroglyphics. He was analogous to Hermes and which called "Hermes Trismegistus" by the Neoplatonists.
\par Answer: _Thoth_
\par 
\par 5. Identify the following terms from chemistry that all start with "I" FTP each.
\par a) An atom or group of atoms that has a net positive or negative charge.
\par Answer: _Ion_
\par b) Two or more compounds having the same formulas but different structures.
\par Answer: _Isomers_
\par c) A chemical that changes color and can be used to mark the end point of a titration.
\par Answer: _Indicator_
\par 
\par 6. Given the former name of a country, identify its current name FTP each.
\par a) Gold Coast
\par Answer: Republic of _Ghana_
\par b) Burma
\par Answer: _Myanmar_
\par c) Democratic Kampuchea
\par Answer: Kingdom of _Cambodia_
\par 
\par 7. Give the 20th century composers of the following works FTP each.
\par a) _The Saint of Bleecker Street_ and _Amahl and the Night Visitors_
\par Answer: Gian Carlo _Menotti_
\par b) _Billy the Kid_ and _Appalachian Spring_
\par Answer: Aaron _Copland_
\par c) _An American in Paris_ and _Rhapsody in Blue_
\par Answer: _George Gershwin_
\par 
\par 8. Identify the author from works 30-20-10.
\par 30) _A Handful of Dust_ and _The Ordeal of Gilbert Pinfold_
\par 20) _Black Mischief_ and _Vile Bodies_
\par 10) _The Loved One_ and _Brideshead Revisited_
\par Answer: Evelyn Arthur St. John _Waugh_
\par 
\par 9. Give the derivatives of the following expressions with respect to 'x' FTP each.
\par a) e^(-2*x) [read: e to the quantity negative 2 times x]
\par Answer: -2*e^(-2*x) [neg 2 times e to the quantity neg 2 times x]
\par b) tan(x) [read: tangent x]
\par Answer: sec^2 x [secant squared x]
\par c) 3^x [read: 3 to the x]
\par Answer: ln(3)*3^x [natural log of 3 times 3 to the x]
\par 
\par 10. Identify the authors of the following economics works FTP each.
\par a) _The Theory of the Leisure Class_, 1899
\par Answer: Thorstein Bunde _Veblen_
\par b) _Theory of Moral Sentiments_, 1759, and _The Wealth of Nations_, 1776.
\par Answer: Adam _Smith_
\par c) _The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money_, 1936
\par Answer: John Maynard _Keynes_
\par 
\par 11. Identify the treaties that ended the following wars FTP each.
\par a) The War of 1812
\par Answer: Treaty of _Ghent_
\par b) First Opium War
\par Answer: Treaty of _Nanking_
\par c) Russo-Japanese War
\par Answer: Treaty of _Portsmouth_
\par 
\par 12. Identify the creators of the following detectives FTP each.
\par a) Miss Jane Marple and Hercule Poirot
\par Answer: Agatha _Christie_ or Agatha Mary Clarissa _Miller_
\par b) Perry Mason
\par Answer: Earl Stanley _Gardner_
\par c) Nero Wolfe
\par Answer: Rex Todhunter _Stout_
\par 
\par 13. Put the following minerals in order from softest to hardest for five points each. The minerals are: calcite, corundum, apatite, gypsum, quartz, and diamond.
\par Answer: _gypsum_, _calcite_, _apatite_, _quartz_, _corundum_, and _diamond_
\par 
\par 14. 30-20-10 Name the artist from works.
\par 30) _Tiger Hunt_ and _The Death of Sardanapalus_
\par 20) _The Massacre at Chios_ and _Dante and Vergil in Hell_
\par 10) _Liberty Leading the People_
\par Answer: Ferdinand Victor Eugene _Delacroix_
\par 
\par 15. Mickey Mantle died at the age of 63 from liver cancer.  Several other famous Yankees have died at early ages.  Given the description, name the ex-Yankee FTP each.
\par a) He lost most of his hair during the 1961 season, because he could not cope with the pressure of chasing Babe Ruth.  He died of cancer at the age of 52 in 1986.
\par Answer:  Roger _Maris_
\par b)  He was an exceptional fielding second baseman and known for carousing with Mickey Mantle.  He went on to manage the Yankees six times before dying in a car crash at the age of 60.
\par Answer:  Billy _Martin_
\par c)  He starred as the catcher of the Yankees during their World Series runs in the late 1970's.  He was killed when in a 1979 commuter plane crash in Ohio.
\par Answer:  Thurman _Munson_
\par 
\par 16. Identify the American authors of the following plays FTP each.
\par a) _Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?_
\par Answer: Edward Franklin _Albee_
\par b) _The Time of Your Life_
\par Answer: William _Saroyan_
\par c) _Death of a Salesman_
\par Answer:  Arthur _Miller_
\par 
\par 17. For five points each, name the three members of the first Roman triumvirate.
\par Answers: Julius _Caesar_, _Pompey_ (or Cneius Pompeius _Magnus_), and Marcus Licinius _Crassus_
\par Now, for five points each, name the members of the second triumvirate.
\par Answers: Marc _Antony_, Marcus Aemilius _Lepidus_, and _Octavian_ (or _Augustus_ or Caius _Octavius_ or Caius Julius Caesar _Octavianus_)
\par 
\par 18. Given a television show, identify the show from which it was spun off FTP each.
\par a) The Facts of Life
\par Answer: _Diff'rent Strokes_
\par b) Mayberry R.F.D.
\par Answer: The _Andy Griffith_ Show
\par c) Enos
\par Answer: The _Dukes of Hazzard_
\par 
\par 19. Given the would-be assassins, identify the American president who was the target of the assassination attempt FTP each.
\par 1. "Squeaky" Fromme and Sara Jane Moore
\par Answer: Gerald Rudolph _Ford_ or Leslie Lynch _King_, Jr.
\par 2. Oscar Collazo and Griselio Torresola
\par Answer:  Harry S _Truman_
\par 3. Richard Lawrence
\par Answer: Andrew _Jackson_
\par 
\par 20. Identify these famous short-story writers given some of their works FTP
\par each.
\par a) "Ball of Fat" and "The Necklace"
\par Answer: Guy de _Maupassant_
\par b) "The Ransom of Red Chief" and "The Gift of the Magi"
\par Answer: _O. Henry_ or William Sydney _Porter_
\par c) "The Snows of Kilimanjaro" and "The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber"
\par Answer: Ernest Miller _Hemingway_
\par }}