{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}
{\f53\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f54\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f56\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f57\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f58\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Jason Hong}{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min3}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min9}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2235}{\nofchars12745}
{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws15651}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1200 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale109\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f6\cgrid0 Game 7
\par 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Packet 2 by Ohio State
\par 
\par 1.  The author of a regular column in the magazine _Natural History_, he helped postulate the theory of punctuated equilibrium.  FTP, identify this Harvard professor of evolutionary biology, author of the book _Wonderful Life_.
\par Answer: Stephen Jay _Gould_
\par 
\par 2.  This nominally professional sports team's motto 
is, appropriately, "We're working on it."  This slogan was coined by the corporation that took over ownership of the franchise from the late Phil Wrigly.  FTP, identify this National League baseball team, which has not won a World Series championship sinc
e 1908.
\par Answer: Chicago _Cubs_
\par 
\par 3.  The first African-American to be granted a Ph.D. from Harvard University, this man advocated the "talented tenth" program as the best means for attaining racial equality in America.  FTP, identify this noted scholar, auth
or, and longtime vocal opponent of Booker T. Washington.
\par Answer:  William Edward Burghardt (W.E.B.) _DuBois_  (pronounced "due-BOYS")
\par 
\par 4.  This novel, published in 1899, featured as its protagonist Edna Pontelier, a young woman who defied conventional soci
al standards of 19th century society.  She became involved in a scandalous extra-marital affair and eventually drowned herself.  FTP, identify this novel, set in New Orleans and written by Kate Chopin.
\par Answer:  The _Awakening_
\par 
\par 5.  Two of the major subdivisions of this religion are Mahayana, which originated in China and filtered its way down into what is today Vietnam, and Hinayana, originating in India and dominant today in Cambodia.  It was founded by a Hindu man who had a re
velation while sitting under a tree.  FTP, name this religion, one of the largest in Southeast Asia, the official state religion of Thailand.
\par Answer:  _Buddhism_
\par 
\par 6.  The international unit equal to the amount of radiation required to produce one elec-trost
atic unit of electrical change in one cubic centimeter of dry air bears this man's name.  FTP, name this German who was awarded the Nobel prize in Physics in 1901 for his discovery of X-Rays.
\par Answer: Wilhelm _Roentgen_
\par 
\par 7.  He was shot in the chest while c
ampaigning in Milwaukee in 1912 by John Nepomuk Schrank, a saloon keeper who objected to this man seeking a third term in office.  Unperturbed, he went on to deliver his speech before seeking medical attention.  FTP, identify this U.S. President, who succ
eeded to the office after the assassination of McKinley.
\par Answer:  _T_heodore _Roosevelt_ (prompt on "Roosevelt")
\par 
\par 8.  Running from the mouth of the Zampezi River up through East Africa, to the Red Sea, and into the Jordan River Valley, this major geological
 feature will eventually spawn a new ocean.  FTP, identify this valley which contains Lake Nyasa and Lake Tanganyika.
\par Answer: _Great Rift_ Valley
\par 
\par 9.  "Dateline NBC" hypothesized that he was heavily influenced by Joseph Conrad's work _The Secret Agent_.  H
e was turned in by his brother when anarchical literature was found among his belongings at his mother's house.  FTP, name this man, who was taken into custody by the F.B.I. on April 3, 1996, as the prime suspect in the Unabomber case.
\par Answer:  Theodore John (Ted) _Kaczynski_
\par 
\par 10.  John the Bastard frames the heroine of this play and fools her husband-to-be into thinking that she is cheating on him.  All is discovered, however, with the capture of Borachio by the constable Dogberry.  FTP, name this Shakespe
are play that features the dual marriages of Hero and Claudio and Beatrice and Benedick.
\par Answer:  _Much Ado About Nothing_
\par 
\par 11.  This late 16th and early 17th century Italian artist once killed a man after losing a tennis match.  His work influenced R.E.M.
's video "Losing My Religion."  FTP, identify this painter of the baroque movement, whose works included _The Fortune Teller_, _The Calling of St. Matthew_, and _The Conversion of St. Paul_.
\par Answer:  Michaelangelo Merisi de _Carravaggio_ (do NOT accept "Michaelangelo")
\par 
\par 12. This disciple, traditionally credited with writing four books of the New Testament, was the brother of James the Greater and the son of Zebedee.  FTP, who is referred to throughout the Gospel which bears his name as "the disciple whom Jesus loved"?

\par Answer: Saint _John_
\par 
\par 13.  His favorite word is "billion", or so you would assume after seeing him on television.  His published works include _The Dragons of Eden_, _Murmurs of Earth_, _Comet_, _Broca's Brain_, and _Cosmos_.  FTP, identify this Cornell professor of astronomy.

\par Answer: Carl _Sagan_
\par 
\par 14.  This economic term became vogue in the early 1970s when the Nixon administration cut Federal government spending and raised federal interest 
rates, which in turn led businesses to cut back production.  FTP, identify this term, denoting a period of high inflation coupled with an economic recession.
\par Answer: _Stagflation_
\par 
\par 15.  He appeared in the James Bond spoof _Casino Royale_, and starred as th
e villain opposite Charlton Heston in _Touch of Evil_.  He directed the adaptation of Booth Tarkington's _The Magnificent Ambersons_.  FTP, identify this Hollywood legend, who produced, directed, co-wrote, and starred in the 1941 classic _Citizen Kane_.

\par Answer: Orson _Welles_
\par 
\par 16.  It has a total area of 226,600 square miles and a population of 13.7 million.  Its national capital and largest city is Antananarivo.  FTP, identify this island nation, located off the Eastern coast of Africa in the Indian Ocean.
\par Answer:  _Madagascar_
\par 
\par 17.  This scientific discovery by William Kelly revolutionized industry in 1851.  FAQTP, identify the process by which pig iron may be converted into steel.
\par Answer: _Bessemer_ process
\par 
\par 18.  The name's the same:  a song by Junior Wal
ker and the All-Stars, the slang term for riding in the front passenger seat of an automobile, and a football play in which the quarterback receives the snap several yards behind the center.  FTP, give the shared name, which also identifies a class of fir
earms.
\par Answer: _Shotgun_
\par 
\par 19.  This English poet, who lived from 1792 to 1822, wrote such poems as "The World's Great Age" and "The Indian Serenade."  His wife, Mary, was an accomplished author in her own right.  FTP, identify the author of "Ozymandias."
\par Answer: Percy Bysshe _Shelley_
\par 
\par 20.  This Populist party member was chosen as the combined Populist/Democratic nominee for the U.S. presidency in 1896.  At the Democratic national convention in that year, he delivered one of the most famous speeches in Ameri
can political history.  FTP, identify this man, who, in spite of his "Cross of Gold" speech, lost the 1896 election to William McKinley.
\par Answer: William Jennings _Bryan_
\par 
\par 21.  Between 1961 and 1989, some 10,000 people attempted to cross this barrier, a bar
ricade of barbed wire and cinderblocks that was later replaced by a system of concrete walls and minefields.  FTP, name this structure separating the capital of Germany into capitalist and communist sections.
\par Answer:  The _Berlin Wall_
\par \page 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Bonuses
\par Packet 2 by Ohio State
\par 
\par 1.  FFPE, identify the four novels by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle in which Sherlock Holmes appeared.
\par Answer:  _A Study in Scarlet_, _The Sign of Four_, The _Hound of the Baskervilles_, and The _Valley of Fear_
\par 2.  Now, for an additional ten points, identify the Doyle short story in which Holmes and his arch-nemesis Professor Moriarty allegedly died at the Reichenbach Falls.
\par Answer:  The _Final Problem_
\par 
\par 2.  Identify the artist given a work of art FTPE.
\par 1.  _The Raft of the Medusa_
\par Answer:  Theodore _Gericault_
\par 2.  _The Birth of Venus_ and _La Primavera_
\par Answer:  Sandro _Botticelli_
\par 3.  _Nighthawks_
\par Answer:  Edward _Hopper_
\par 
\par 3.  Given the name of a Latin American nation, identify that nation's capital city, for 5 points each.
\par 1.  Belize
\par Answer:  _Belmopan_
\par 2.  Argentina
\par Answer:  _Buenos Aires_
\par 3.  Paraguay
\par Answer:  _Ascuncion_
\par 4.  Nicaragua
\par Answer:  _Managua_
\par 5.  Brazil
\par Answer:  _Brasilia_
\par 6.  French Guyana
\par Answer:  _Cayenne_
\par 
\par 4.  Answer the following questions about those British limelight boys, the Beatles, for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  First, FFP, what singer, songwriter, composer, and artist who recorded "Tears in Heaven" was almost a member of the Beatles.
\par Answer:  Eric _Clapton_
\par 2.  Next, FTP, who was the youngest of the four Beatles.
\par Answer:  George _Harrison_
\par 3.  Finally, for fifteen points, what drummer preceded Ringo Starr and was present at the audition for Decca records when the Beatles were rejected by their first major record company?
\par Answer:  Pete _Best_
\par 
\par 5.  Given the generals who commanded the opposing armies, identify the battle being described for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  For 5 points: Napoleon vs. Wellington and von Blucher
\par Answer:  _Waterloo_
\par 2.  For 10 points: Hannibal and Scipio Africanus in 202 B.C.
\par Answer:  _Zama_
\par 3. For 15 points --Erwin Rommel vs. Bernard Montgomery
\par Answer:  _El Alamein_
\par 
\par 6.  Given the atomic symbol of an element, name that element, for 5 points each.
\par 1.  Mo
\par Answer:  _Molybdenum_
\par 2.  W
\par Answer:  _Tungsten_
\par 3.  Cs
\par Answer:  _Cesium_
\par 4.  Ag
\par Answer:  _Silver_
\par 5.  Kr
\par Answer:  _Krypton_
\par 6.  At
\par Answer:  _Astatine_
\par 
\par 7.  Given a verse from the Bible, identify the book from which it comes FTPE.
\par 1.  "The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord."
\par Answer:  _Job_
\par 2.  "And the four beasts had each of them six wings, and they rest not day and night, saying Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which was, and is, and is to come."
\par Answer:  _Revelation_
\par 3.  "Is it nothing to you, all ye that pass by?  Behold, and see if there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow."
\par Answer:  _Lamentations_
\par 
\par 8.  Given a brief description, identify the political leader referred to FTPE.
\par 1.  After graduating from college, she worked as a research chemist and as a tax lawyer.  First elected to her nation's legislature in 1959, she worked her way up through the ranks of the Conservative party, assuming the leadership of her nation in 1979.

\par Answer:  Margaret _Thatcher_
\par 2.  Her father was executed in the aftermath of a military coup that toppled him from power.  After his death, she assumed the leadership of the Pakistan People's Party, only to be placed under arrest by Pakistan's military government.  FT
P, identify this woman, who became Pakistan's Prime Minister in 1988.
\par Answer:  Benazir _Bhutto_
\par 3.  Born Nkosikazi Nomzamo Madikizela, she overcame humble origins and "banning" by her country's white minority government to become South Africa's Minister of Culture following the collapse of apartheid.
\par Answer:  _Winnie Mandela_  (full name required -- prompt on partial answers)
\par 
\par 9.  Given a bacterial shape, identify the type of bacteria being described FTPE.
\par 1.  Spherical
\par Answer:  _Coccus_ or _Cocci_
\par 2.  Rod-shaped
\par Answer:  _Bacillus_ or _Bacilli_
\par 3.  Long, tightly-wound spiral
\par Answer:  _Spirochete_
\par 
\par 10.  There has been a rash of incidents lately between players and referees in the NBA.  Answer the following questions about these run-ins FTPE.
\par 1.  Which Chicago Bulls player was suspended for six games and fined $20,000 for 
\par head-butting a ref?
\par Answer:  Dennis "Captain Hairdo" _Rodman_
\par 2.  This Los Angeles Laker shoved referee Daryl Garritson onto the scorer's table after being ejected from a game.  He was suspended for the remainder of the regular season and fined $25,000.
\par Answer:  Nick _Van Exel_
\par 3.  After speaking out about the Nick Van Exel incident, this player bumped a ref less than a week later and was ejected, suspended for three games, and fined $10,000.
\par Answer:  Earvin "Magic" _Johnson_
\par 
\par 11.  Answer the following questions about the 19th Century Russian composer Modeste Mussorgsky FTPE.
\par 1.  Identify the Mussorgsky work featured near the end of Disney's _Fantasia_, which seeks to depict musically the noctural dances of demons.
\par Answer:  _Night on Bald Mountain_ (accept "Night on Bare Mountain")
\par 2.  One of Mussorgsky's most famous works was the piano suite "Pictures at an Exhibition", whose leading movement is based on a painting of the Great Gate of what Ukranian city?
\par Answer:  _Kiev_
\par 3.  "Pictures at an Exhibition" was adopted for orchestra by what Frenchman, composer of "Pavane for a Dead Infanta"?
\par Answer:  Maurice _Ravel_
\par 
\par 12.  How well do you know your Greek?  FFPE, thirty points possible, list the first six letters of the Greek alphabet.
\par Answer:  _Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, Epsilon, Zeta_
\par 
\par 13.  Given the name of a band, identify that group's lead singer FFPE.
\par 1.  The Rolling Stones
\par Answer:  Mick _Jagger_
\par 2.  The Comets
\par Answer:  Bill _Haley_
\par 3.  The Four Seasons
\par Answer:  Frankie _Valli_
\par 
\par 14.  Identify the African-American being described on a 15-5 basis.
\par 1.  For 15 points: When she was criticized by the NAACP, she replied, "I'd rather play a maid than
\par BE a maid."
\par For 5 points: She was the first African-American to win an Oscar.  She took home the Best Supporting Actress award for her role in 1939's _Gone With the Wind_.
\par Answer:  Hattie _McDaniel_
\par 2.  For 15 points:  He once commented, "The only thing I like integrated is my coffee."
\par For 5 points: He co-wrote his autobiography with Alex Haley, and Spike Lee made that book into a hit movie with Denzel Washington in the title role.
\par Answer:  _Malcolm X_ (accept Malcolm Little)
\par 
\par 15.  Name the authors of the following works of American fiction, 10 each:
\par 1.  _The Open Boat_
\par Answer:  Stephen _Crane_
\par 2.  _Ben-Hur_
\par Answer:  Lew _Wallace_
\par 3.  _The Good Earth_
\par Answer:  Peark _Buck_
\par 
\par 16.  Let's test your knowledge DNA.  Answer the following questions for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  FFPE, identify the four nitrogenous bases in DNA.
\par Answer:  _Adenine, Cytosine, Guanine, Thymine_
\par 2.  Now, for an additional ten points, identify the base that replaces thymine in RNA.
\par Answer:  _Uracil_
\par 
\par 17.  Identify the actor or actress who gives voice to the following members of "The Simpsons" universe FTPE.
\par 1.  Marge Simpson
\par Answer:  Julie _Kavner_
\par 2.  Bart Simpson
\par Answer:  Nancy _Cartwright_
\par 3.  Troy McClure, frequent host of films and infomercials on The Simpsons.
\par Answer:  Phil _Hartman_
\par 
\par 18.  Given a brief description, identify the historical figure for 30 points after the first clue, 20 after the second, or 10 points after all three.
\par 30:  Her Austrian heritage was widely resented throughout her life in her adopted home of France.
\par 20:  She opposed negotiations with the leaders of the French Revolution, even going so far as to appeal to her brother, Holy Roman Emperor Leopold II, for military intervention.
\par 10: She was guillotined in Paris on October 16, 1793, following a failed escape attempt.
\par Answer:  Marie _Antoinette_
\par 
\par 19.  Identify the authors of the following contemporary bestsellers for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  For 5 points: Seinlanguage
\par Answer:  Jerry _Seinfeld_
\par 2.  For 5 points: Fatherhood
\par Answer:  Bill _Cosby_
\par 3.  For 10 points:  My Point, Or Do I Have One?
\par Answer:  Ellen _Degeneres_
\par 4.  For 10 points: Don't Stand Too Close to a Naked Man
\par Answer:  Tim _Allen_
\par 
\par 20.  Given a clue, identify the first lady of the United States FTPE.
\par 1.  She was once committed to a mental hospital by her son Robert.
\par Answer:  Mary Todd _Lincoln_
\par 2.  She was the first First Lady to be buried in Arlington National Cemetary, along with her husband.
\par Answer:  Helen _Taft_
\par 3.  She was known as the "Steel Magnolia."
\par Answer:  Rosalind _Carter_
\par 
\par 21.  Given the name of a National Park, identify the state in which it is located FTPE.
\par 1.  Bryce Canyon
\par Answer: _Utah_
\par 2.  Isle Royale
\par Answer: _Michigan_
\par 3.  Acadia
\par Answer: _Maine_
\par 
\par }}