{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}
{\f53\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f54\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f56\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f57\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f58\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Jason Hong}{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min3}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min9}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages6}{\nofwords1944}{\nofchars11085}
{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws13613}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1200 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale110\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f6\cgrid0 Game 6
\par 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Packet 1 by Ohio State
\par 
\par 1. This Ohio native's finest moment probably occurred on the afternoon of the final day of the Battle of Gettysburg, when Union cavalry under his command thwarted an attempt by J.E.B. Stuart's 
cavalry to flank the Union army.  FTP, identify this flamboyant man, known as the "boy general", who is probably more well known for his ignominious end at the Little Big Horn in 1876.
\par Answer: George Armstrong _Custer_
\par 
\par 2. A day on this planet lasts only 9
hours and 55 minutes, the shortest of any planet in our solar system.  Its circumference, 280,000 miles is more than 10 times as large as the circumference of the Earth, making it the largest planet in our solar system.  FTP, name this gas giant.
\par Answer: _Jupiter_
\par 
\par 3.  Aldous Huxley wasn't being original when he chose the title of _Brave New World_, but was instead borrowing a quote from the last play Shakespeare ever wrote.  FTP, name this drama featuring Ferdinand, Miranda, and Caliban.
\par Answer: The _Tempest_
\par 
\par 4. He died on April 3, 1996, when a US military plane crashed en route from Tuzla, Bosnia, to Dubrovnik, Croatia.  FTP, who was this man, the former chairman of the Democratic party and the first African-America Secretary of Commerce?
\par Answer: Ron _Brown_
\par 
\par 5. Named by Europeans for a great precolonial kingdom located near this river's mouth, it flows from its headwaters in Zambia north into Zaire, then southwest, passing Brazzaville and Kinshasa before entering the Atlantic.  FTP, identify this river, t
he second longest in Africa, which lends it name to a book by Michael Crichton.
\par Answer: _Congo_
\par 
\par 6. This Dutch merchant who ground lenses as a hobby made over 400 simple
\par microscopes and used them to observe spermatozoa, bacteria, and capillaries.  He also discovered what he called "animalicules."  FTP, name this scientist, the first to observe protozoa.
\par Answer: Anton von _Leeuwenhoek_ (LAY-van-hook)
\par 
\par 7.  Along with Theo va
n Doesburg, he founded the magazine "De Stijl" (de style).  He rejected all sensuous qualities of texture, surface, and color, reducing his palette to the primary colors and painting canvases that consisted only of straight lines.  FTP, name this painter 
of "Composition with Red, Yellow, and Blue" and "Broadway Boogie-Woogie."
\par Answer:  Piet _Mondrian_
\par 
\par 8. The rulers of the province Ile-de-France, their dynasty succeeded the Carolingians, and they in turn were succeeded in 1328 by the Valois dynasty.  FTP, what was this line of French kings, founded in 987 with the election of Hugh as king of France.

\par Answer: _Capetians_
\par 
\par 9. Their only returning starter from last year averaged only one point per game, and this team was unanimously picked to finish last in thei
r conference. Despite this, they made the NCAA tournament, but lost to Utah in the second round.  FTP, what was this team that finished 2nd to Kansas in the Big 8, located in Ames, Iowa, and nicknamed the Cyclones?
\par Answer: _Iowa State_ University
\par 
\par 10. Named after their German discoverer, these irregular masses of endocrine cells secrete glucagon and insulin, and their degeneration is possibly the cause of diabetes mellitus.  FTP, name these cells located in the interstitial tissue of the pancreas.

\par Answer: _Islets of Langerhans_
\par 
\par 11. One of the days of the Christian Holy Week, it commemorates Christ's washing of his disciples' feet and the institution of Holy Communion at the last supper.  FTP, what is the name given to this celebration the Thursday before Easter?
\par Answer: _Maundy_ Thursday
\par 
\par 12. In the process of canonization, this person tests the claims of the candidate for canonization and advances all arguments he can against the candidate.  FTP, what is the term for this person, which has come to mean any 
person who deliberately takes an opposing view.
\par Answer: _Devil's Advocate_
\par 
\par 13. In 1800, the Congress of the US apropriated $5000, "...for the purchase of such books as may be necessary for the use of Congress at the said city of Washington, and for fittin
g up a suitable apartment for containing them...".  FTP, what was born from that decree?
\par Answer: the _Library of Congress_
\par 
\par 14. This disorder results when a certain chromosome fails to separate during meiosis.  Today it is called Trisomy-21, but in an earlier age it was known as Mongolism.  FTP what is this genetic disorder?
\par Answer: _Down's Syndrome_, accept _Trisomy 21_ on an early buzz
\par 
\par 15. Twice saved from bankruptcy by Johns Hopkins, it purchased the "Tom Thumb" steam locomotive in 1830.  FTP, name this first US passenger railroad which opened 13 miles of track between Ellicott's Mills and Baltimore in 1830, one of the four railroads o
n the Monopoly board.
\par Answer: _Baltimore and Ohio_ Railroad, or _B & O_ Railroad
\par 
\par 16. This new product was recently approved by the FDA for use in salted snack foods, and will be called Olean as a Procter & Gamble trademark.  FTP name this fat substitute which provides the taste and texture of fat with zero calories.
\par Answer: _Olestra_
\par 
\par 17. Her movie career stalled while she was at Yale, but she has come back strong, directing "Home for the Holidays" and "Little Man Tate", and appearing in "Maverick".  FTP, n
ame this actress who won her second Oscar for her protrayal of Clarice Starling in "The Silence of the Lambs".
\par Answer: Jodie _Foster_
\par 
\par 18. The daughter of Phorcys and Hecate, she was loved by Poseidon, but his wife, Amphritrite, poisoned the pool where she
 bathed and she was turned into a six-headed monster with twelve legs.  FTP, name this sea monster whom Odysseus had to avoid while also avoiding the whirlpool Charybdis.
\par Answer: _Scylla_
\par 
\par 19. This famous quote was spoken on December 16, 1944, when the German army had surrounded U.S. Brigadier General Anthony McAuliffe's troops at Bastogne, Belgium, and demanded his surrender.  FTP, what was his famous and defiant one word reply?
\par Answer: "_Nuts_"
\par 
\par 20. This author worked as an surveyor at customs houses in b
oth Boston and Salem, and spent a year at the Utopian community of Brook Farm.  FTP, name this author of the short story collection _Twice Told Tales_, and the novels  _The Blithedale Romance_, _The House of the Seven Gables_ and _The Scarlet Letter_.

\par Answer: Nathaniel _Hawthorne_
\par 
\par 21. A member of Congress from New York from 1917 to 1919, and from 1923 to 1933, he served as mayor of New York City from 1933 to 1945, and drastically reduced corruption in city government.  FTP, name this man who now has a New 
York City airport named for him.
\par Answer: Fiorello _LaGuardia_
\par \page 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Bonuses
\par Packet 1 by Ohio State
\par 
\par 1. 30-20-10 Identify the author given works.
\par 30 - _The Gilded Age_, "The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg"
\par 20 - _The Innocents Abroad_, _Roughing It_
\par 10 - _The Prince & the Pauper_, "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County"
\par Answer: Mark _Twain_ (or Samuel Langhorne _Clemens_)
\par 
\par 2. Identify the element for 15 points on the first clue, or from its number & the elements it is between on the periodic table for 5 points.
\par 1.  For 15 points: This transition element derives its name from the German for "goblin."  It is used in magnetic alloys, and its compounds are used as red, yellow & blue pigments.
\par For 5 points: 27, Iron & Nickel
\par Answer: _Cobalt_
\par 2.  For 15 points: This noble gas was discovered by Ramsay & Travers in 1898, and its name comes from the Greek for "a stranger".  It is used in stroboscopic lights, and it was the first noble gas shown to make compoun
ds, having been made to combine with fluorine and oxygen.
\par For 5 points: 53, Iodine only
\par Answer: _Xenon_
\par 
\par 3. (30) Given the name of a song, name the Disney film in which it appears for ten points each.
\par 1.  Sister Suffragette
\par Answer:  _Mary Poppins_
\par 2.  Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo
\par Answer:  _Cinderella_
\par 3.  Candle on the Water
\par Answer:  _Pete's Dragon_
\par 
\par 4. Each of the three Presidents below had 2 different vice-presidents.  Name each of the veeps for 5 points each.
\par 1. Richard Nixon
\par Answer:  Spiro _Agnew_ and Gerald _Ford_
\par 2. Thomas Jefferson
\par Answer:  Aaron _Burr_, George _Clinton_
\par 3. Andrew Jackson
\par Answer:  John C. _Calhoun_, Martin _Van Buren_
\par 
\par 5. Identify the artists of the following 20th century paintings, for 10 points each:
\par 1. "The Persistence of Memory", 1931
\par Answer: Salvador _Dali_
\par 2. "Guernica", 1937
\par Answer: Pablo _Picasso_
\par 3. "Whaam!", 1963
\par Answer: Roy _Lichtenstein_
\par 
\par 6. Name the Shakesperean plays from some characters, for 10 points each.
\par 1.  Malvolio, Orsino, Olivia
\par Answer: "Twelfth Night"
\par 2. Claudius, Polonius, Ophelia
\par Answer: "Hamlet"
\par 3. Lysander, Bottom, Titania
\par Answer: "A Midsummer Night's Dream"
\par 
\par 7. For 10 points each, name the phylum of the animal kingdom each of the following belongs to.
\par 1. humans
\par Answer: _chordata_ or _chordates_
\par 2. shrimp
\par Answer: _arthropoda_ or _arthropods_
\par 3. starfish
\par Answer: _echinodermata_ or _echinoderms_
\par 
\par 8. 1.  For 10 points, what is the term used for the movement to establish a Jewish state in Palestine, especially the political movement of the late 1800's and early 1900's.
\par Answer: _Zionism_
\par 2.  For another 10 points, who was the Austrian writer & founder of the political Zionist movement, who organized the first World Zionist Conference in 1897.
\par Answer: Theodore _Herzl_
\par 3.  And for a final 10 points, what was the common name for the 1917 British policy statement guaranteeing a Jewish national home in Palestine.
\par Answer: _Balfour Declaration_
\par 
\par 9. Given some national parks, name the state in which they are
\par located for 10 points each.
\par 1. Kobuk Valley, Wrangel-St. Elias, Denali
\par Answer: _Alaska_
\par 2. Big Bend
\par Answer: _Texas_
\par 3. Capitol Reef, Arches, Canyonlands
\par Answer: _Utah_
\par 
\par 10. For 10 points each, given an incomplete name of a labor of Hercules, fill in the blank with the appropriate word.  For example, if I said "the Cretan <blank>", you'd say "bull".
\par 1. the <blank> Stables\tab \tab 
\par Answer:  _Augean_
\par 2. the <blank> Lion\tab 
\par Answer:  _Nemean_
\par 3. the Apples of the <blank>
\par Answer:  _Hesperides_
\par 
\par 11.  For 5 points each, name the standard SI units used to measure the following:
\par 1.  Mass
\par Answer:  The _Kilogram_
\par 2.  Work
\par Answer:  The _Joule_
\par 3.  Electric resistance
\par Answer:  The _Ohm_
\par 4.  Amount of substance
\par Answer:  The _Mole_
\par 5.  Thermodynamic temperature
\par Answer:  The _Kelvin_
\par 6.  Luminous intensity
\par Answer:  The _Candela_
\par 
\par 12. Name the following Supreme Court cases from descriptions, for 10 points each.
\par 1. 1819 - The Court ruled that a charter is a contract which the Constitution protects against state legislative interference.
\par Answer: Trustees of _Dartmouth College_ v. Woodward
\par 2. 1919 - The Court ruled that the government cannot restrict freedom of speech unless the speech creates a "clear and present danger".
\par Answer: _Schenk v. United States_
\par 3. 1962 - The Court ruled that states could not require students to recite a prayer in public schools.
\par Answer: _Engle v. Vitale_
\par 
\par 13. State name trivia, part 1!  There are seven letters which do not begin the name of any US state.  For 5 points each, name any six of these seven letters.
\par Answer: _B, E, J, Q, X, Y, Z_
\par 
\par 14. In late March of 1996, mad cow disease or BSE was in the headlines as fear spread of transmission of this deadly nervous system disease from eating contaminated beef.  For 10 points each what do the letters BSE stand for?
\par Answer: _bovine_ _spongiform_ _encephalitis_
\par 
\par 15. For 5 points each, name any six of the seven books of C.S. Lewis's "Chronicles of Narnia".
\par Answer: _The Last Battle_; _The Magician's Nephew_; _The Horse and His Boy_; _The Silver Chair_; _The Voyage of the "Dawn Treader"_; _Prince Caspian_; _The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe_
\par 
\par 16. 30-20-10 Name the year from events.
\par 30: Frank Robinson becomes the first African-American to manage a Major League baseball team; Yitzhak Rabin is named to head the Israeli cabinet after Golda Meir steps down
\par 20: "The Godfather, Part II" wins the Best Picture Oscar; Muhammad Ali defeats George Foreman in Zaire to regain the heavyweight title
\par 10: Richard Nixon resigns as President on August 9.
\par Answer: _1974_
\par 
\par 17. For the stated number of points, given a location's former name, provide its current one.
\par For 5 points: Abyssinia
\par Answer: _Ethiopia_
\par For 5 points: Siam
\par Answer: _Thailand_
\par For 10 points: Van Diemen's Land
\par Answer: _Tasmania_
\par For 10 points: Southern Rhodesia
\par Answer: _Zimbabwe_
\par 
\par 18. Excluding a cameo in _ET_ which ended up on the cutting room floor, Harrison Ford has been in 6 of the top 20 grossing movies of all time.  Name them for 5 points each.
\par Answer: _Star Wars_, _Return of the Jedi_, _The Empire Strikes Back_, _Raiders of
\par the Lost Ark_, _Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom_, _The Fugitive_
\par 
\par 19. Name these parts of the brain, 10 each:
\par 1.  It controls the subconscious movements of the skeletal muscles and produces smooth movements, maintains equilibrium and controls posture.
\par Answer:  The _Cerebellum_
\par 2.  It is a continuation of the upper part of th spinal cord and forms the lower part of the brain stem.  It regulates the heartbeat and breathing.
\par Answer:  The _Medulla_ oblongata
\par 3.  It lies directly above the medulla and anterior to the cerebellum.  Taking its name from the Latin for "bridge," it connects the two hemispheres.
\par Answer:  The _Pons_
\par 
\par 20. Given two movies, name the actor or actress they have in common for 10 points each.
\par 1) Project X; Glory
\par Answer: Matthew _Broderick_
\par 2) Dirty Dancing; To Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything - Julie Newmar
\par Answer: Patrick _Swayze_
\par 3) Dick Tracy; Desperately Seeking Susan
\par Answer: _Madonna_}{
\par }}