{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}
{\f53\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f54\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f56\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f57\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f58\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Jason Hong}{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min3}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min9}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords1837}{\nofchars10476}
{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws12865}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1200 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale114\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f6\cgrid0 Game 2
\par 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Cal-Berkeley Packet 1
\par 
\par 1. This American's short story collections include _The Triumph of the Egg_ and _Horses and Men_. His most famous novel is a series of sketches about George Willard and other inhabitants of a small Midwestern town.  FTP, w
ho is this author of _Winesburg, Ohio_? 
\par Answer: Sherwood _Anderson_
\par 
\par 2. Soda cans are pressurized to keep the carbonation in the liquid.  This is one physical manifestation of a law that states that the solubility of a gas in a liquid is proportional to pressure.  FTP, name this law of chemistry.
\par Answer:  William _Henry_'s Law 
\par 
\par 3. This Frenchman hung out in sewers during secret revolutionary activities and developed a skin condition that required him to be almost constantly immersed in water.  FTP, who wa
s this subject of a famous painting by Jacques-Louis David, who was stabbed in his bathtub by Charlotte Corday? 
\par Answer:   Jean-Paul _Marat_
\par 
\par 4. Richard Wagner married one of this composer's daughters, Cosima, in 1870. FTP, who was this virtuoso pianist, composer of the Faust symphony and the Hungarian rhapsodies? 
\par  Answer: Franz _Liszt_
\par 
\par 5. Developed by a member of the Eleatic school of Greek p
hilisophy, they are meant to question the nature of space and time.  One deals with an arrow in flight, another with a footrace, and another with the impossibility of getting from point A to point B in a finite number of steps.  FTP, identify these "parad
oxes", named after their creator. 
\par Answer:  _Zeno_ of Elea's paradoxes
\par 
\par 6.  He wears number 32 out of admiration for Magic Johnson, and despite the rookie salary cap may be one of the wealthiest men in America who still lives with his mother.  FTP, identify
 this former University of Maryland all-star who now plays forward on the Golden State Warriors. 
\par Answer: Joe _Smith_
\par 
\par 7. The first one was Frederic Muhlenburg; others have been named Cannon, Wright, and Reed.  The person who holds this position is first in line to become president if the vice-president dies.  FTP, identify this post currently held by Newt Gingrich.

\par Answer:  _Speaker of the House_
\par 
\par 8. The fighting in this country right now is centered around the struggle between warlords named Roosevelt Johnson and Charles Taylor.  FTP, identify this African nation, whose capital is named for U.S. president James Monroe.
\par Answer:  _Liberia_
\par 
\par 9. A child of Echidna and Typhon, every time one of its heads was cut off, two more grew in its place.  Heracles slew i
t with the help of his torch-wielding nephew to complete his second labor.  FTP, what was this dragon-like monster which lived in the swamps of Lernia?
\par Answer:  Lernean _Hydra_
\par 
\par 10.  After his marriage to Isabella Brant, whom he often painted, he was appoi
nted court artist to archduke Albert of Antwerp, the city where his triptych, the "Descent from the Cross" is located.  Among his other works are "the Rape of the Daughters of Leucippus" and "The Crucifixion of St. Peter."  FTP, name this painter of "Mari
e de Medici Entering Versailles," famous for his fleshy nudes.
\par Answer:  Peter Paul _Rubens_
\par 
\par 11. The major director of macromolecular transport in cells, these subcellular organelles are responsible for the storage, modification, and packaging of secretory 
products. FTP, what are these organelles named after the Italian who discovered them in 1898?
\par Answer: _Golgi_ apparatus
\par 
\par 12. Born Jacob Rubenstein, this man operated nightclubs and 
dance halls in Dallas. On November 24, 1963, while visible on television, he shot a man in custody of the Dallas police, two days after that man allegedly assassinated John F. Kennedy. FTP, who is this killer of Lee Harvey Oswald? 
\par Answer: Jack L. _Ruby_
\par 
\par 13. Element number 100 is named after this physicist, who was born in Rome in 1901. He discovered neptunium, and won the 1938 Nobel Prize for his work on radioactivity. FTP, who was this physicist who created the first self-sustaining chain reaction in ur
anium in 1942?
\par Answer: Enrico _Fermi_
\par 
\par 14.  When the Greeks defeated the Persian forces at this battle, Pheidippides, a Greek soldier, ran all the way back to Athens with the news.  He died upon arrival, but his feat inspired the creation of a long-distance
 race which took its name from the battle fought on that day. FTP, what do we call a race of 26 miles, 385 yards? 
\par Answer:  _Marathon_
\par 
\par 15.  From her childhood experiences on Prince Edward's Island, she prepared what was to be a short serial for a Sunday School paper. It was so successful, however, that she wrote 6 sequels.  FTP, who is this author of _Anne of Green Gables_? 
\par Answer:  Lucy Maud _Montgomery_
\par 
\par 16. This president's inauguration speech speech took its author well over an hour to read, during wh
ich time he caught a chill that led to pneumonia.  FTP, name the president who gave his speech on a bitterly cold day in March 1841 and then died a month later. 
\par Answer:  _William_ Henry _Harrison_
\par 
\par 17.  No one is really certain who his father really was. 
 He alternately stated Aegaeus or Poseidon, depending upon the situation.  When Aegeus threw himself into the sea with grief, he became king of Athens. FTP, who was this famous king slew the Minotaur and abandoned Ariadne on the island of Naxos? 
\par Answer:   _Theseus_
\par 
\par 18. Among his short stories are "A Diamond as Big as the Ritz" and "Babylon Revisited."  the husband of Zelda Sayre, he wrote a short story collection, "Flappers and Philosophers."  FTP, name this Jazz Age author of _This Side of Paradise_ and 
_The Great Gatsby_.
\par Answer:  F(rancis) Scott (Key) _Fitzgerald_
\par 
\par 19. This biome's name comes from the Russian for "north of the timberline."  Mosses, lichens, caribou, lemmings, and flies are some of the principal organisms, and it is the most continuous b
iome, interrupted only by the North Atlantic and the Bering Sea. FTP, what is this northernmost biome? 
\par Answer: _Tundra_
\par 
\par 20. This American was born in Virginia, but many of her novels like _The Song of the Lark_ deal with immigrant settlers in the Midwest. FTP, who is this author of _One of Ours_, _Death Comes for the Archbishop_, and _O Pioneers!_? 
\par Answer: Willa Sibert _Cather_
\par \page 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Bonuses
\par Cal-Berkeley Packet 1
\par 
\par 1. Answer the following questions about Lincoln's assassination for ten points each.
\par 1.  On what month and day was President Lincoln shot?
\par Answer: _April 14_
\par 2.  What play by Tom Taylor was being presented in Ford's Theatre?
\par Answer: _Our American Cousin_
\par 3.  Which boarding house owner was a conspirator in the assassination and became the first woman in U.S. history to be hanged?
\par Answer: Mary _Surratt_
\par 
\par 2. Answer the following questions about the human eye FTP each.
\par 1.  These cells respond to low levels of light, but not to color, and allow us to see when it is dark.
\par Answer: _rods_
\par 2.  There are three kinds of these cells, sensitive to blue, green, and red light, giving us color vision. 
\par Answer: _cones_
\par 3. Containing the fovea, light is focused on this region at the back of the eye, where chemical reactions produce nerve impulses. 
\par Answer: _Retina_
\par 
\par 3. Name any 6 of the 10 largest islands in the world for 5 points each.
\par Answer:  _Greenland_ or _Kalaallit Nunaat_, _New Guinea_, _Borneo_, _Madagascar_, _Baffin_, _Sumatra_, _Honshu_, _Great Britain_, _Victoria_, _Ellesmere_
\par 
\par 4. Given a famous quote from a Shakespeare play, identify the speaker FTP each.
\par 1. "Lord, what fools these mortals be."
\par Answer: _Puck_ or Robin _Goodfellow_
\par 2. "Neither a borrower nor a lender be."
\par Answer: _Polonius_
\par 3. "Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more."
\par Answer: _Henry V_
\par 
\par 5.  30-20-10, identify the artist from works:
\par 30:  The Jolly Toper
\par 20:  Malle Babbe
\par 10:  The Laughing Cavalier
\par Answer:  Franz _Hals_
\par 
\par 6. Identify the German authors of the following works FTP each.
\par 1. _Death in Venice_
\par Answer: Thomas _Mann_
\par 2. _Steppenwolf_
\par Answer: Herman _Hesse_
\par 3. _The Sorrows of Young Werther_
\par Answer: Johann Wolfgang von _Goethe_
\par 
\par 7. Answer the following questions about the Louisiana Purchase.
\par 1. For ten points each, who were the two American envoys to France who worked to complete the purchase?
\par Answers: Robert _Livingston_ and James _Monroe_
\par 2. For how much money was the Louisiana purchase made in 1803?
\par Answer: _15 million dollars_ or _60 million francs_
\par 
\par 8.  Given a moon, identify the planet which it orbits for 10 pts each.
\par 1. Charon
\par Answer: _Pluto_\tab \tab 
\par 2. Triton
\par Answer: _Neptune_
\par 3. Phobos
\par Answer: _Mars_
\par 
\par 9.  Name the author from works,  30-20-10.
\par 30: _A Moveable Feast_ and _Green Hills of Africa_
\par 20: _To Have and Have Not_ and _For Whom the Bell Tolls_
\par 10: _The Sun Also Rises_ and _The Old Man and the Sea_
\par Answer:  Ernest Miller _Hemingway_
\par 
\par 10.  Given the name of a person, identify the religion or religious movement he founded FTP each. 
\par 1. Lao Tzu
\par Answer: _Taoism_ or _Daoism_
\par 2. George Fox
\par Answer:  The _Quakers_ (accept "Society of Friends")
\par 3. Mary Baker Eddy
\par Answer: _Christian Science_
\par 
\par 11. Identify the 5 most common elements by weight in the Earth's crust for five points each, with a five points bonus if you list them in decreasing order.
\par Answers: _Oxygen_, _Silicon_, _Aluminum_, _Iron_, _Calcium_
\par 
\par 12. Expand the acronyms of the following New Deal agencies FTP each.
\par 1. WPA
\par Answer: _Works Progress Administration_
\par 2. NRA
\par Answer: _National Recovery Administration_
\par 3. FERA
\par Answer: _Federal Emergency Relief Administration_
\par 
\par 13.  Zeus was famous for having many lovers.  Given one of Zeus' many children, identify the mother for five points each.
\par 1. Apollo
\par Answer: _Leto_
\par 2. Perseus
\par Answer: _Danae_
\par 3. Hermes
\par Answer: _Maia_
\par 4. Terpsichore
\par Answer: _Mnemosyne_
\par 5. Heracles
\par Answer: _Alcmene_ or _Alcmena_
\par 6. Dionysus
\par Answer: _Semele_
\par 
\par 14.  30-20-10 Identify the famous building.
\par 30: The foundations for it were laid by William the Conqueror in 1078. Later, it was used as a mint, and King Henry VII made it his home.  
\par 20: Queen Elizabeth I and her mother lived there, as did Sir Walter Raleigh. 
\par 10: In 900 years of existence, this official residence and treasure house also housed 1700 prisoners. 
\par Answer:  _Tower of London_
\par 
\par 15.  Proteins in the body are made up of amino acids. Answer the following questions about amino acids for FTP each.
\par 1. A basic set of amino acids are used to create proteins. For ten points, within two, how many are in this set?
\par Answer: _Twenty_ (Accept 18-22)\tab 
\par 2.   Amino acids are linked to each other by a certain type of bond, which links the amino terminus of one acid to the carboxy terminus of the other. What is this type of bond called? 
\par Answer: _Peptide_
\par 3. The amino acid cysteine features another type of bond in which the sulfur atoms of two units of the amino acid form a symmetrical linkage called a cystine bridge. FTP, what is this covalent bond called?
\par Answer: _Disulfide_ bond
\par 
\par 16. Identify the authors given some of their pseudonyms FTP each, five if you need a work.
\par 1.  For 10 points: Boz
\par For 5 points: _The Old Curiosity Shop_
\par Answer: Charles _Dickens_
\par 2.  For 10 points: Paul French
\par For 5 points:   _I, Robot_
\par Answer: Isaac _Asimov_
\par 3.  For 10 points: Jack Keefe
\par For 5 points: _You Know Me, Al_
\par Answer: Ringgold Wilmer _Lardner_
\par 
\par 17.  30-20-10 name the world leader. 
\par 30: He was the head of Israel's armed forces during the Six Day War of 1967, and he served as Defense Minister under Prime Minister Golda Meir. 
\par 20: He succeeded Meir as Prime Minister in 1975 and served in that post until Menachem Begin was elected in 1977. 
\par 10: He returned to the office of Prime Minister in 1992 and held that position until he was assasinated in November of 1995. 
\par Answer: Yitzhak _Rabin_
\par 
\par 18. Given the name of a successful book which became an Oscar-winning movie, name the author FTP each. 
\par 1. _Gone With the Wind_
\par Answer: Margaret _Mitchell_
\par 2. _The Godfather_
\par Answer: Mario _Puzo_
\par 3. _Out of Africa_
\par Answer: Isak _Dinesen_ or Baroness Karen Dinesen _Blixen_
\par 
\par 19.  Identify the baseball stars who hit these famous home runs in the World Series for ten points each. 
\par 1. In Game 7 of the 1960 Series, this Pittsburgh 2nd baseman's home run in the ninth inning gave his team a 10-9 win over the heavily favored New York Yankees. 
\par Answer: Bill _Mazeroski_
\par 2. In Game 6 of the 1975 Series, this Boston catcher hit a home run off the foul pole to give his team a 12-inning win over the Reds. 
\par Answer: Carlton _Fisk_
\par 3. In Game 6 of the 1993 Series, this Toronto outfielder hit a 3-run homer in the bottom of the ninth to win the championship for the Blue Jays over Philadelphia. 
\par Answer: Joe _Carter_
\par 
\par 20.  The United States uses dollars, the United Kingdom pounds. For ten points apiece identify the currencies of these other nations.
\par 1. Austria 
\par Answer: _Schilling_
\par 2. India
\par Answer: _Rupee_     
\par 3. South Africa      
\par Answer: _Rand_
\par }}