{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}
{\f53\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f54\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f56\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f57\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f58\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Jason Hong}{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min3}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min9}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages6}{\nofwords1774}{\nofchars10112}
{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws12418}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1200 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale108\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f6\cgrid0 Game 8
\par 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Packet 3 by Ohio State
\par 
\par 1. He came to prominence as a leader of the 1894 Pullman strike, and ran five times as the Socialist party candidate for President.  FTP, name this politician who won nearly a million votes in 1920 despite campaigning from jail.
\par Answer:  Eugene V. _Debs_
\par 
\par 2. Roh Tae Woo and Chun Doo Hwan, former presidents of South Korea, were both recently arrested on corruption charges in an anti-corruption program instituted by South Korea's current President.  FTP, name this man, the first ele
cted civilian president in decades.
\par Answer:   _Kim_ Young Sam
\par 
\par 3. He wrote novels set in the Jewish ghettos of Eastern Europe, as in "the Family Moskt" and "a Crown of Feathers and other Stories."  Concerned by the threat of Nazism, he worked for the Hebre
w press.  FTP, name this author of _Enemies: A Love Story_, the winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1978.
\par Answer:  Isaac Bashevis _Singer_
\par 
\par 4. Jolo, Basilan, Bohol, Samar, Panay, Cebu, Negros, Palawan, Leyte, Mindanao, and Luzon are some of the islands of, FTP, what Asian nation?
\par Answer:   the _Philippines_
\par 
\par 5. These were introduced by John Napier in 1614, and a modified version based on 10 were introduced by Henry Briggs a few years later.  These greatly simplified hand calculations, by transformin
g multiplication into addition.  FTP, what is this mathematical function that can be either common or natural.
\par Answer:   _logarithms_
\par 
\par 6. This holiday has its origins in gifts given to servants and service providers such as mail carriers and trash collecto
rs on the first working day after Christmas.  FTP, what is this holiday celebrated in England and the British Commonwealth on December 26.
\par Answer:   _Boxing Day_
\par 
\par 7. The language of this culture is thought to be the last survivor of the indiginous languages of Western Europe before the arrival of Indo-European.  FTP, name this fiercely independent people of northern Spain.
\par Answer:  _Basques_
\par 
\par 8. On Thursday, April 11, this man shot a 9-under par 63.  Three days later, he shot himself in the foot, shooting a 6-over par 78 and losing a 6 shot lead.  FTP, name this Australian golfer who lost the Masters to Nick Faldo.
\par Answer:  Greg _Norman_
\par 
\par 9.  Some of the genera of this class of arthropods are Crepicephalus, Dikelocephalus, and Olenellus.  They inhabited shal
low, sun-lit waters on the continental shelves, molting and shedding fragile exoskeletons which produced concentrations of fragments known as "hash".  FTP, what is this bottom-dwelling creature whose fossils are abundant in Cambrian rocks?
\par Answer: _Trilobites_
\par 
\par 10. _The Great Train Robbery_, _Eaters of the Dead_, _Sphere_, _Rising Sun_, _Disclosure_ and _The Lost World_ are all novels by, FTP, what author of _Jurassic Park_.
\par Answer:  Michael _Crichton_
\par 
\par 11.  This man explored the Orinoco River and the interior of Guyana in 1595.  He was imprisoned in the Tower of London for nearly 15 years before he was executed in 1618.  FTP, name this English explorer who threw down his cloak for Queen Elizabeth to wal
k upon, and founded the failed colony of Roanoke.
\par Answer:  Sir Walter _Raleigh_
\par 
\par 12. This man is being sued by the possible mugger he shot and paralyzed in 1984.  FTP, name this man who was tried and convicted of the 1984 shooting of four African-Americans youths who accosted him in the New York City subway.
\par Answer:  Bernard _Goetz_
\par 
\par 13. He died at just 35, but during his short lifetime this composer wrote over 600 works, which are now indexed by their Koechel number.  FTP, name this man who composed the unf
inished "Requiem Mass", the Jupiter symphony, and the operas "Don Giovanni", "The Magic Flute", and "The Marriage of Figaro".
\par Answer:  _Mozart_
\par 
\par 14. Measuring 5 to 10 micrometers long, these cellular organelles have a smooth outer membrane and highly folde
d inner membrane, and are the only organelle known outiside of nuclei to contain DNA.  FTP, what are these organelles in which respiration occurs.
\par Answer:  _mitochondria_
\par 
\par 15. This program called for a protectove tariff to promote industry, a national bank, and the construction of a large number of roads and canals.  FTP, name this nationalistic economic plan proposed by Henry Clay.
\par Answer:  the _American System_
\par 
\par 16. "I aimed for the public's heart, and by accident I hit it in the stomach,"  so said this man, regarding his sensational expose revealing the conditions of the meat-packing industry.  FTP, name this muckraking author of _The Jungle_.
\par Answer:  Upton _Sinclair_
\par 
\par 17. The son of Kish, he was generally successful in his military campaigns against the Philistines, but they finally defeated him at Mount Gilboa, and he comitted suicide.  FTP, name this man who was anointed by Samuel to be the first King of Israel.

\par Answer:  _Saul_
\par 
\par 18. Produced in 1937 by Segre and Perrier by bombarding molybdenum with de
uterons, they named it for the Greek for "artificial".  It has not been found in terrestrial ores.  FTP, name this first artifically produced element, with atomic number 43 and symbol Tc.
\par Answer:  _Technetium_
\par 
\par 19. In the early 1740s, he helped inspire the religious revival known as the Great Awakening.  Dismissed from his Northampton pulpit for overzealousness, he became a missionary to the Indian tribes around Stockbridge, Massachusetts.  FTP, name this Purita
n preacher most famous for his sermon, "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God."
\par Answer:  Jonathan _Edwards_
\par 
\par 20. In 1348, seven young women and three young men meet in a church in Florence, and decide to flee the city to escape the Black Death.  In the count
ryside, each tells 1 story a day for the next 10 days.  FTP, name this 14th century collection of tales written by Giovanni Boccaccio.
\par Answer:  The _Decameron_
\par 
\par \page 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Bonuses
\par Packet 3 by Ohio State
\par 
\par 1. Here's a bonus on something that even college players can't keep straight - gas laws.  FTPE, give the law given the description.
\par 1. With temperature constant, volume is inversely proportional to pressure.
\par Answer:  _Boyle's_ Law
\par 2. With pressure constant, volume is directly proportional to temperature.
\par Answer:  _Charles'_ Law
\par 3. The velocity of effusion of a gas is inversely proportional to the square root of its density.
\par Answer:  _Graham's_ Law
\par 
\par 2. Given a year and the winning candidate, identify the major party loser in the following presidential elections.
\par 1. Harry Truman, 1948\tab \tab 
\par Answer:  Thomas _Dewey_
\par 2. Andrew Jackson, 1828\tab \tab 
\par Answer:  John _Q_uincy _Adams_
\par 3. Franklin Roosevelt, 1936\tab 
\par Answer:  Alfred _Landon_
\par 
\par 3. 30-20-10 Name the author from works.
\par 30 - _Knight's Gambit_, _A Fable_
\par 20 - _Requiem for a Nun_, _Absalom, Absalom!_
\par 10 - _The Sound and the Fury_, _As I Lay Dying_
\par Answer:  William _Faulkner_
\par 
\par 4. There has been a recent controversy over the title of World's Tallest Building.  A new twin-towered skys
craper in a South-East Asian capital city is 1483 feet tall, 33 feet taller than the Sears Tower, despite being 22 stories shorter than the Sears Tower.  FTP, give the name of this new skyscraper, and the city and country in which it is located.
\par Answer:  _Petronas Tower_, _Kuala Lumpur_, _Malaysia_
\par 
\par 5. "Planet Hollywood" made quite a splash in the world of theme restaurants when it opened.  FTPE, name any 3 of the 4 celebrity owners.
\par Answer:  Bruce _Willis_, Demi _Moore_, Sylvester _Stallone_, Arnold _Schwarzeneggar_
\par 
\par 6. FTPE, name the phylum of the animal kingdom each of the following belongs to.
\par 1. sponges\tab \tab 
\par Answer:  _porifera_
\par 2. snails\tab \tab 
\par Answer:  _mollusca_ or _mollusks_
\par 3. earthworms\tab 
\par Answer:  _annelida_ or _annelids_
\par 
\par 7. With the disintegration of Yugoslavia, the only two republics which remain united as Yugoslavia are, ironically, the only two republics who were independent countries prior to World War I.  FTPE, identify these two republics.
\par Answer:  _Serbia_, _Montenegro_
\par And for a final 10 points, what country controlled Bosnia, Croatia, and Slovenia at the outbreak of World War I.
\par Answer:  _Austria-Hungary_ (do not accept just Austria)
\par 
\par 8. Identify these foreign authors from works, all of whom have all won the Nobel Prize in Literature, FTPE.
\par 1. _100 Years of Solitude_\tab \tab 
\par Answer:  Gabriel _Garcia-Marquez_
\par 2. _The Stranger_\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Answer:  Albert _Camus_
\par 3. _And Quiet Flows the Don_
\par Answer:  Mikhail _Sholokov_
\par 
\par 9. Which cities are the following US Service Academies in, FTPE?
\par 1. US Naval Academy\tab \tab 
\par Answer:  _Annapolis_, Maryland
\par 2. US Air Force Academy\tab \tab 
\par Answer:  _Colorado Springs_, Colorado
\par 3. US Coast Guard Academy\tab 
\par Answer:  _New London_, Connecticut
\par 
\par 10. Identify the company from an advertising slogan, FFPE.
\par 1. "Your way, right away."\tab \tab 
\par Answer:  _Burger King_
\par 2. "Pizza!  Pizza!"\tab \tab \tab 
\par Answer:  _Little Caesar's_
\par 3. "You'll love the way we fly."\tab 
\par Answer:  _Delta_ Airlines
\par 4. "You'll love what we do fo you."\tab 
\par Answer:  _Toyota_
\par 5. "It keeps going and going..."\tab 
\par Answer:  _Energizer_
\par 6. "See what develops."\tab \tab \tab 
\par Answer:  _Polaroid_
\par 
\par 11. Answer the following questions about the history of mathematics for the stated number of points.
\par 1. Much of the early part of the 18th century was spent in an acrimonious battle concerning who should be given credit for inventing calculus.  Name the two principle contenders, one English and one German, 5 for one, 15 for both.
\par Answer:  Isaac _Newton_ and Gottfried Wilhelm _Leibniz_
\par 2. In the mid-1600's, a French mathematician wrote a note in a margin of a book that if a, b, c & n a
re integers, then a to the n plus b to the n equals c to the n does not have a solution for n greater than 2, and claimed he had a proof but did not give it.  In 1993, a mathematician at Princeton announced he finally had a proof.  For 5 points for 1 or 1
5 for both, name these two mathematicians.
\par Answer:  Pierre de _Fermat_, Andrew _Wiles_
\par 
\par 12. Only six men have held the post of Secretary General of the United Nations.  Identify these 3 Secretaries General from their country and the year they took office, FTPE.
\par 1. Sweden, 1953\tab \tab 
\par Answer:  Dag _Hammarskjold_
\par 2. Austria, 1972\tab \tab 
\par Answer:  Kurt _Waldheim_
\par 3. Peru, 1982\tab \tab 
\par Answer:  Javier _Perez de Cuellar_
\par 
\par 13. Give the Shakespearean play which contains the following quotes.
\par 1. "O! beware my lord, of jealousy;
\par     It is the green-ey'd monster"
\par Answer:  _Othello_
\par 2. "Lord, what fools these mortals be!"
\par Answer:  _A Midsummer Night's Dream_
\par 3. "The play's the thing
\par     Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king."
\par Answer:  _Hamlet_
\par 
\par 14. Who were the architects of the following buildings?  Name 'em FTPE.
\par 1. St. Paul's Cathedral, London\tab \tab 
\par Answer:  Sir Christopher _Wren_
\par 2. Guggenheim Museum, New York\tab \tab 
\par Answer:  Frank Lloyd _Wright_
\par 3. the glass pyramid at the Louvre\tab \tab 
\par Answer:  I.M. _Pei_
\par 
\par 15. For five points per part, give the name of the song and the artist who originally perfored it given the first line of the song.
\par 1. "It's 9:00 on a Saturday\tab 
\par     The regular crowd shuffles in"
\par Answer:  "_Piano Man_", Billy _Joel_
\par 2. "Hello darkness my old friend"
\par Answer:  "_Sounds of Silence_", Paul _Simon_ and Art _Garfunkel_
\par 3. "Memories light the corners of my mind
\par     Misty water-colored memories of..."
\par Answer:  "The Way We Were", Barbra _Streisand_
\par 
\par 16. Time for human anatomy.  Give the scientific name for these common body parts, FTPE.
\par 1. The smaller and more posterior lower leg bone
\par Answer: _Fibula_
\par 2. tailbone
\par Answer: _Coccyx_
\par 3. Kneecap
\par Answer: _Patella_
\par 
\par 17. Give the royal house of the following British monarchs, for 10 points each.
\par 1. George III\tab 
\par Answer:  House of _Hanover_
\par 2. James I\tab \tab 
\par Answer:  House of _Stuart_
\par 3. Richard III\tab 
\par Answer:  House of _York_
\par 
\par 18. For five points each, name any 6 of the 7 women's colleges traditionally known as the Seven Sisters.
\par Answer:  _Mount Holyoke_, _Smith_, _Vassar_, _Wellesley_, _Barnard_, _Bryn Mawr_, _Radcliffe_
\par 
\par 19. State name trivia, part 2!  Most US states are known officially simply as the "State of <blank>", but four are officially known as the "Commonwealth of <blank>".  Name these "commonwealths", FFPE and a 10 point bonus for all four.
\par Answer:  _Kentucky_, _Massachusetts_, _Virginia_, _Pennsylvania_
\par 
\par 20.  Identify the authors of the following literary works:
\par 1.  _The Wapshot Chronicle_
\par Answer:  John _Cheever_
\par 2.  _Little House on the Prairie_
\par Answer:  Laura Ingalls _Wilder_
\par 3.  _The Little Foxes_
\par Answer:  Lillian _Hellman_
\par }}