{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}
{\f53\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f54\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f56\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f57\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f58\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Jason Hong}{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min3}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min9}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2060}{\nofchars11745}
{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws14423}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1200 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale107\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f6\cgrid0 Game 9
\par 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Packet 4 by Ohio State
\par 
\par 1. The last English monarch to die in battle, he had his two nephews murdered in the Tower of London to insure his succession to the throne.  FTP, name this subject of a Shakespearean history who ruled from 1483 to 1485 and was defeated by Henry Tudor & k
illed at the battle of Bosworth Field.
\par Answer:  _Richard III_
\par 
\par 2. Until 1989, this planet was only known to have two moons.  In that year, Voyager II discovered six more, plus a group of three rings.  FTP, name this planet, first observed by Johann Galle in 1846 and currently the furthest planet from the sun.
\par Answer:  _Neptune_
\par 
\par 3. Soothsayers predicted this son of Priam would bring disaster, and he was given to shepherds to expose, but they spared his life.  In the Trojan War, he was killed by Philoctetes, 
but not before killing Achilles.  FTP, name this Trojan who, by judging Aphrodite the fairest, received Helen as his reward.
\par Answer:  _Paris_
\par 
\par 4. It began in 1926 when Dallas's Southland Ice Company decided to supplement slow winter ice sales with grocerie
s, and by 1963, with thousands of stores across the country, some stores began operating 24 hours a day.  FTP, identify this ubiquitous store, the world's original convenience store.
\par Answer:  _7-Eleven_
\par 
\par 5. This 1965 science fiction novel spawned 5 sequels
, describing "The God-Emperor of...", "The Heretics of...", and "The Children of.." the title planet, also known as Arrakis.  FTP, name this Frank Herbert novel, made into a bad 1984 movie starring Sting.
\par Answer:  _Dune_
\par 
\par 6.  In this Asian nation of approx
imately 65 million, the use of French as an administrative language has been in steady decline since the end of colonial rule.  FTP, identify this nation, united in 1976 after a thirty years of civil war and struggles with France and the United States.

\par Answer:  _Vietnam_
\par 
\par 7. The assassination of James Garfield by Charles Guiteau, a disgruntled office seeker, forced Congress to take steps to reform the Spoils System.  FTP, name the bill passed in 1883 which established competitive exams for some federal jobs
 and created the Civil Service Commission.
\par Answer:  _Pendleton_ Act
\par 
\par 8. Born in 1483 in Urbino, some of his better known religious paintings include "Madonna with the Goldfinch" and the "Alba Madonna".  In 1508, he was commissioned to decorate the Vatican 
Palace, and it is in the Palace's Stanza della Segnatura where his masterpiece resides.  FTP, name this artist of "The School of Athens".
\par Answer:  _Raphael_ (Raffaello Santi)
\par 
\par 9.  He was the first President of the United States to have been an Eagle Scout 
and the first to visit Japan while in office.  On the Simpsons, he invited Homer over to eat nachos and watch football.  His dog, a golden retriever, was named Liberty.  FTP name this man, the 38th President of the US.
\par Answer:  Gerald _Ford_
\par 
\par 10. He held the position of Latin secretary to Oliver Cromwell, and the grueling work cost him his eyesight.  His works include the elegy "Lysidas", the dramatic poem "Samson Agonistes", and the political tract "Aeropagitica".  FTP, name this English auth
or of _Paradise Lost_.
\par Answer:  John _Milton_
\par 
\par 11. The last Secretary of this Cabinet department was Kennth C. Royall. Previous Secretaries included William Howard Taft, Robert Lincoln, Jefferson Davis, Edwin Stanton, and the first, Henry Knox.  FTP, name t
his Cabinet department which became a branch of the Department of Defense in 1947. 
\par Answer:  Department of _War_ (or War Department)
\par 
\par 12. This Swedish biologist became interested in classification schemes after studying the sexual organs of flowers, and he
 classified all known plant species on that basis.  FTP, identify this scientist who first called humans "Homo sapiens" and introduced the current system of binomial nomenclature. 
\par Answer:  Carolus _Linnaeus_ (or Carl von Linne)
\par 
\par 13. This city in the Hejaz is located 220 miles north of Mecca.  Originally called Yathrib, it contains the tomb of Mohammed and is one of the holiest cities of Islam.  FTP, name this city to which Mohammed fled in 622 in the Hegira.
\par Answer:  _Medina_
\par 
\par 14. London in 1851; Paris in 
1889; Chicago in 1893; Buffalo in 1901; St. Louis in 1904; Chicago again in 1933-34; New York in 1939-40; Seattle in 1962; New York again in 1964-65; Montreal in 1967; Spokane in 1974; and Knoxville in 1982. These were the sites and dates of, FTP, what ty
pe of international exposition?
\par Answer:  _World's Fair_
\par 
\par 15. Composed in 1792 by Claude Roget de Lisle, it was originally titled "Song of War for the Army of the Rhine".  Soldiers singing it entered Paris later that year, and it became wildly popular.  FTP, name this song, the French national anthem.
\par Answer:  _La Marseillaise_
\par 
\par 16. The historian Flavius Josephus says this man was a harsh administrator, and he was recalled to Rome after his behavior provoked a riot.  FTP, identify this procurator of Judea from 26 to 36 AD who presided over the trial of Jesus. 
\par Answer:  Pontius _Pilate_
\par 
\par 17.  His absenteeism displeased his master, who succeded to the throne of England as George I.  To propitiate the king, he is said to have composed the "Water Music."  To celeb
rate the treaty of Aix-le-Chapelle, he wrote the "Royal Fireworks Music."  FTP, name this composer of the "Messiah."
\par Answer:  Georg Friedrich _Handel_
\par 
\par 18. Composed of 100 cantos written in terza rima, it begins with the poet lost in the Wood of Error on Good Friday, 1300.  It then follows the poet's travels through the afterlife, led by Vergil and Beatrice.  FTP, identify this epic poem by Dante Alighie
ri.
\par Answer:  The _Divine Comedy_
\par 
\par 19. Developed at Bell Labs in 1948, this electronic device can be used as an amplifier, rectifier, or switch.  FTP, identify this device which revolutionized electronic circuits by replacing the vacuum tube.
\par Answer:  _transistor_
\par 
\par 20. An ace fighter pilot in World War I, he joined the Nazis in 1922, and founded the Gestapo in 1933.  He directed the entire German economy before 1943 when he was stripped of power, partly because of his morphine addiction.  FTP, name this Nazi 
who headed the German Luftwaffe.
\par Answer:  Hermann _Goering_
\par 
\par 21.  "If you're a young Mafia gangster out on your first date, I bet it's really embarrassing if someone tries to kill you."  "It's too bad that whole families have to be torn apart by something 
as simple as wild dogs."  FTP, these are just a few of the so-called Deep Thoughts of what man, as seen on Saturday Night Live?
\par Answer:  Jack _Handey_
\par 
\par 22.  The name of this famous dish is actually a contraction of the words "for her" in Spanish.  FTP, name this Spanish dish containing vegetables, seafood & chicken, and flavored with saffron.
\par Answer:  _paella_
\par \page 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Bonuses
\par Packet 4 by Ohio State
\par 
\par 1. Give the Shakespearean play which contains the following quotes.
\par 1. "Lay on, MacDuff..."
\par Answer:  _Macbeth_ (also accept _The Scottish Play_ if the team is overly
\par superstitious)
\par 2. "This was the noblest Roman of them all."
\par Answer:  _Julius Caesar_
\par 3. "If music be the food of love, play on..."
\par Answer:  _Twelfth Night_
\par 
\par 2.  Identify these former leaders of the Soviet Union from a brief description.
\par 1.  Noteworthy events during his administration included the signing of the SALT I agreement and the invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968.
\par Answer:  Leonid _Brezhnev_
\par 2.  He was the Soviet ambassador to Hungary during the 1956 uprising.  He served as general secretary of the Soviet communist party from late 1982 until
\par February of 1984.
\par Answer:  Yuri _Andropov_
\par 3.  Stalin ousted him from the politburo and expelled him from Russia.  He fled to Mexico City where he was assassinated with an ice pick by Ramon del Rio.
\par Answer:  Leon _Trotsky_
\par 
\par 3. Identify these Canadian provinces & territories from clues for 10 points each, or for 5 each if you need an additional clue telling you some major cities.
\par 1.  For 10 points: It contains Banff and Wood Buffalo National Parks.
\par For 5 points: Edmonton & Calgary
\par Answer:  _Alberta_
\par 2.  For 10 points: It contains the French colonial fortress of Louisbourg and was the original home of the Acadians whom the British forcibly evicted.
\par For 5 points: Halifax
\par Answer:  _Nova Scotia_
\par 3.  For 10 points: It controls all the islands in Ungava Bay, James Bay, and Hudson Bay.
\par For 5 points: Yellowknife
\par Answer:  _Northwest Territories_
\par 
\par 4. Answer the following related questions about plants for 10 points each.
\par 1. What are the pores in the epidermis of leaves and stems which aids in gas exchange. 
\par Answer:  _stoma_ or _stomata_
\par 2. What are the cells on each side of the stomata which controls their opening and closing.
\par Answer:  _guard_ cells
\par 3. And finally, what is the term for the evaporation of water from plants which mainly occurs through the stomata.
\par Answer:  _transpiration_
\par 
\par 5. Major League Soccer began again in the US on April 6, with team names that are, well, interesting.  Given the city, supply the team nickname for 5 points each.
\par 1. Kansas City
\par Answer:  _Wiz_
\par 2. Washington D.C.
\par Answer:  _United_
\par 3. Tampa Bay
\par Answer:  _Mutiny_
\par 
\par 6. This organzization, abbreviated IUPAC, has the unenviable task of sorting out the who discovered new elements and deciding what they should be named. For 5 points  for each word and a 5 point bonus for all 5, what does IUPAC stand for?
\par Answer:  _International_ _Union_ of _Pure_ and _Applied_ _Chemistry_
\par 
\par 7.  Identify the authors of the following works of 20th-Century literature for 10 points each.
\par 1.  _The Secret Sharer_, _Lord Jim_
\par Joseph _Conrad_
\par 2.  _Portnoy's Complaint_
\par Answer:  Philip _Roth_
\par 3.  _In Cold Blood_, _Breakfast at Tiffany's_
\par Truman _Capote_
\par 
\par 8.  Answer the following questions about the Peloponnesian War for 10 points each.
\par 1.  The events of the Peloponnesian War were recounted by what Greek historian?
\par Answer:  _Thucydides_
\par 2.  Sparta and its allies formed this alliance, which went to war with Athens due to fear of growing Athenian power.
\par Answer:  _Pelopennesian_ League
\par 3.  The Peloponnesian League was established to counter what alliance between Athens and its subject cities?
\par Answer:  _Delian_ League
\par 
\par 9.  Identify the famous newspapermen being described for 10 points each:
\par 1.  By 1927 he controlled an empire of 25 newspapers including the _New York Daily Mirror_, the _New York Journal-American_, and the _Los Angeles Examiner_.
\par Answer:  William Randolph _Hearst_
\par 2.  Among the most famous papers in his publishing empire were the _New York Sun_ and the _St. Louis Evening Dispatch_.
\par Answer:  Joseph _Pulitzer_
\par 3.  Co-founder of Baltimore's _The American Mercury_ and famous for his sardonic quips, he once defined Puritanism as, "The haunting fear that someone, somewhere, may be happy."
\par Answer:  H. L. _Mencken_
\par 
\par 10.  30-20-10, name the U.S. President.
\par 30:  He claimed that he only knew two songs, saying that "One is Yankee Doodle, and the other one isn't."  He was known as the Hero of Fort Donelson, and was born in Point Pleasant, Ohio.
\par 20:  He managed to gain reelection in 1872 despite the Whiskey Ring scandal.
\par 10:  His vice-president was Schuyler Colfax, and his administration saw the Credit Mobilier scandal.
\par Answer:  (Hiram) Ulysses S. _Grant_
\par 
\par 11.  Acronyms are very popular on the Intenet.  Given an internet acronym, give the full name of the abbreviation for the stated number of points.
\par For 5 points: WWW
\par Answer:  _World Wide Web_
\par For 10 points: FAQ
\par Answer:  _Frequently Asked Questions_
\par For 15 points: HTML
\par Answer:  _Hypertext Markup Language_
\par 
\par 12. For 10 points each, give the author who created the following the following recurring literary characters.
\par 1. Nick Adams
\par Answer:  Ernest _Hemingway_
\par 2. Jack Ryan
\par Answer:  Tom _Clancy_
\par 3. Mike Hammer
\par Answer:  Mickey _Spillane_
\par 
\par 13. 30-20-10 Identify the year in which all the following events occurred.
\par 30: Apollo 9 becomes the first manned spacecraft to orbit the moon; US Naval
\par ship "Pueblo" captured by North Korea
\par 20: Russian troops crush the "Prague Spring" movement in Czechoslovakia
\par 10: Martin Luther King, Jr. & Robert Kennedy assassinated.
\par Answer:  _1968_
\par 
\par 14.  The character of James Bond, first created by British ex-secret agent Ian
\par Fleming, has long been very popular in both literature and cinema.  For five points each, identify the five actors who have portrayed James Bond on the silver screen in REAL films, as opposed to Casino Royale.
\par Answer:  Sean _Connery_, George _Lazenby_, Roger _Moore_, Timothy _Dalton_, Pierce _Brosnan_
\par 
\par 15.  Given a clue, identify the U.S. state being described, 30-20-10.
\par 30: Home of Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park
\par 20: Home of the Martin Luther King, Jr. National Historic Site
\par 10: Home of Stone Mountain and the Andersonville National Historic Site
\par Answer:  _Georgia_
\par 
\par 16. For 5 points each, identify the inventor of the following inventions.
\par 1. stock ticker
\par Answer:  Thomas Alva _Edison_
\par 2. dynamite
\par Answer:  Alfred _Nobel_
\par 3. Polaroid camera
\par Answer:  Edwin _Land_
\par 4. bifocal lenses
\par Answer:  Benjamin _Franklin_
\par 5. reaper
\par Answer:  Cyrus _McCormick_
\par 6. safety razor
\par Answer:  King _Gillette_
\par 
\par 17. 30-20-10 Identify the author from works.
\par 30: _It Can't Happen Here_, _Dodsworth_
\par 20: _Elmer Gantry_, _Babbitt_
\par 10: _Arrowsmith_, _Main Street_
\par Answer:  Sinclair _Lewis_
\par 
\par 18.  Identify the following Norse gods, 10 each.  Norse names, please, not German:
\par 1.  His ravens were Hugin and Munin, his spear was Gungnir, and he sacrificed one eye to gain the mead of poetry.  Name this god of wisdom.
\par Answer:  _Odin_
\par 2.  The father of Hel, the Midgard serpent, and the Fenris Wolf, this mischeivous character was a sworn brother of Odin.
\par Answer:  _Loki_
\par 3.  His hammer was Mjollnir, and he frequently went on adventures with Loki.  Name this god of thunder.
\par Answer:  _Thor_  
\par 
\par 19.  Let's check and see how well you were paying attention in your French classes.  Given the name of a color in English, identify its French equivalent for five points each.
\par 1.  White
\par Answer:  _blanche_ or _blanc_
\par 2.  Purple
\par Answer:  _Pourpre_
\par 3.  Green
\par Answer:  _Vert_
\par 4.  Yellow
\par Answer:  _Jaune_
\par 5.  Red
\par Answer:  _Rouge_
\par 6.  Black
\par Answer:  _Noir_
\par 
\par 20.  Given an African nation, tell what European country originally colonized it, 10 each:
\par 1.  Zaire
\par Answer:  _Belgium_
\par 2.  Algeria
\par Answer:  _France_
\par 3.  Angola
\par Answer:  _Portugal_
\par }}