{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}
{\f53\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f54\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f56\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f57\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f58\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Jason Hong}{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min3}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min9}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages6}{\nofwords1966}{\nofchars11210}
{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws13766}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1200 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale113\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f6\cgrid0 Game 3
\par 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Cal-Berkeley Packet 2
\par 
\par 1.The most famous example of this type of building is the one in Moscow.  This walled citadel in Moscow houses
 the crown jewels of the Russian imperial family and the parliament building. FTP, name this building, which is also the name of any medieval defensive fortress in a Russian city.
\par Answer: _Kremlin_
\par 
\par 2. After graduating from Yale University, where he was a 
a member of the baseball team, he became a Navy fighter pilot in WWII. In 1966, he was elected to the House of Representatives and began a long career in government, holding such positions as ambassador to the U.N., director of the CIA, and vice president
 of the United States. FTP, name this former President.
\par Answer:  George _Bush_
\par 
\par 3.  The son of Atreus and brother of Menelaus, he, not Menelaus, is the leader of the Achaean army at Troy.  High king of Mycenae, he ruled part of Argos and many islands with h
is gold scepter.  FTP, who was this husband of Clytemnestra (Cly tem nes tra) who sacrificed his daughter Iphigeneia (If ig gin aye uh) to Artemis at the start of the war for favorable winds?
\par Answer:  _Agamemnon_
\par 
\par 4. This English novelist wrote about the s
urvival of society in _Mankind  in the Making_ and _Men Like Gods_, but he is more famous for his science fiction like _The First Man in the Moon_ and _The Island of Dr. Moreau_. FTP, who is this author of _The Invisible Man_ and _The Time Machine_?

\par Answer: Herbert George _Wells_
\par 
\par 5. _Day of the Fight_, _Flying Parade_, _Fear and Desire_, _Killer's Kiss_, _Paths of Glory_, _Barry Lyndon_, _The Shining_, and _Full Metal Jacket_ are some of the films directed by what man, whose most famous films include _Dr. 
Stranglove_ and _2001: A Space Odyssey_? 
\par Answer: Stanley _Kubrick_
\par 
\par 6.  Founded in 1961 after a letter in a British newspaper called for an international campaign to protect human rights, it is now active in over 150 countries.  FTP, name this group, the 
1977 winner of the Nobel Peace Prize.                                
\par Answer: _Amnesty International_
\par 
\par 7. If you're given the length of two sides of any triangle as well as the measure of the angle which lies between those two sides, you can use this law o
f trigonometry to calculate the length of the third side.  FTP, name this law which has the Pythagorean theorem as a special case.
\par Answer:  the Law of _Cosines_
\par 
\par 8.  Born February 7, 1968 in Luck, Ukraine, he was the 156th player taken in the 1990 entry dr
aft.  One of the fastest skaters in the National Hockey League, he was nicknamed "Bonzai" by his teammates.  FTP, name this Washington Capital who led the National Hockey League in goals  scored with 34, in 1994-95.
\par Answer:  Peter _Bondra_
\par 
\par 9.  This American made gunpowder and cannon for the Revolutionary war  effort. He designed the first Continental currency and the state seal of Massachusetts. FTP, who was this Boston silversmith who made a "midnight ride" on April 18, 1775?
\par Answer: Paul _Revere_
\par 
\par 10. Born in 1578 in Kent, this scientist worked in St. Bartholomew's Hospital and was court physician to James I and Charles I. FTP, who was this man known as the "Father of Modern Physiology," who discovered how blood circulates in the human body? 

\par Answer: William _Harvey_
\par 
\par 11. He was one of the most talented of the English Romantic poets in the early 19th century, and some of his famous poems include "Hyperion," "The Eve of St. Agnes" and "La Belle Dame Sans Merci".  FTP, who is best known for the poem "Endymion"? 
\par Answer:  John _Keats_
\par 
\par 12. It began in St. Joseph, Missouri and teminated in Sacramento, California, a distance of about 2000 miles. Relay riders traveled the distance in about 8 days. Started in 1860, it was disbanded the next year after the co
mpletion of a transcontinental telegraph line made its existence unnecessary. FTP, name this horseback relay mail service. 
\par Answer: _Pony Express_
\par 
\par 13. This financier bought a boat when he was 16 and ferried passengers between Staten Island and New York Ci
ty. In 1862 he began to obtain a controlling interest in a large number of railways. FTP, who was this man, nicknamed "Commodore," who endowed a university in Nashville?
\par Answer: Cornelius _Vanderbilt_
\par 
\par 14. The last name's the same: Amy was an imagist poet 
of _What's O' Clock_ and _Sword Blades and Poppy Seed_, Robert Traill Spense was the confessional poet of _Land of Unlikeness and _Lord Weary's Castle_, and James Russell was a 19th century poet and critic whose works include _The Vision of Sir Launfal_. 
FTP, what is the common name? 
\par Answer: _Lowell_
\par 
\par 15.  Astrologer to Wallenstein and court mathematician to Rudolf II, this German astronomer used calculations based on Tycho Brahe's planetary observations to write books like _Astronomia Nova_ and _Harmonice
 Mundi_. FTP, who was this man who formulated three laws of planetary motion? 
\par Answer: Johannes _Kepler_
\par 
\par 16.  Though of unillustrious birth, she was made a saint in 1920, nearly 500 years after her death.  She had no military background, but claiming to h
ave seen visions at age 17, she took upon herself the burden of freeing France.  FTP, name this Maid of Orleans. 
\par Answer: _Joan of Arc_
\par 
\par 17. Born in 1797, this Austrian composed chamber works like _Death and the Maiden_ and around 600 lieder, or German songs. FTP, who is this composer of the _Trout_ quintet and the "Unfinished" symphony? 
\par Answer: Franz Peter _Schubert_
\par 
\par 18.  Some of this man's acting roles include Waldo Pepper, a top-notch stunt pilot; Johnny Hooker, and Roy Hobbs, a "natural" when it came to hitting home runs.  FTP, who is this actor who first gained fame by starring with Paul Newman in _Butch Cassidy a
nd the _Sundance Kid_? 
\par Answer:  Robert _Redford_
\par 
\par 19. This English king was checkmated by Parliament when they withheld money from him until he agreed to certain reforms.  This and other factors led to the English Civil War.  FTP, who was this king who was beheaded in January 1649? 
\par Answer:  _Charles I_
\par 
\par 20.  Ruled by the Greeks, Carthaginians, Romans, Arabs, Normans, the Holy Roman Emperors, Spaniards and Napoleon, it was joined politically to the rest of Italy in 1861.  FTP, name this island whose capital is at Palermo. 
\par Answer: _Sicily_
\par \page 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Bonuses
\par Cal-Berkeley Packet 2
\par 
\par 1. The election of 1860 is one of the most crucial in US history.  For the stated number of points, answer the following. 
\par 1. Who was Lincoln's running mate in 1860?
\par Answer: Hannibal _Hamlin_
\par 2.  For five points each, which two men accepted presidential nominations from factions of the Democratic party? 
\par Answers: John _Breckinridge_, Stephen _Douglas_
\par 3. FTP, What new party composed largely of ex-Whigs and Know Nothings ran on a platform to preserve national unity? 
\par Answer: _Constitutional Union_
\par 4. For a final five points, who was the Constitutional Union Presidential nominee? 
\par Answer: John _Bell_
\par 
\par 2.  Name these scientific devices, 10 each:
\par 1.  Devised by Ernest Lawrence, it consists of two semicircular "D"s and a deflecting plate.  A cyclindrical magnet bends a particle beam into a circular path, accelerating it each time it crosses the gap between the Ds.
\par Answer:  A _Cyclotron_
\par 2.  This is an ionization chamber used as a radiation detector.  It employs a tungsten wire which when irradiated sets of a cascade of ions.
\par Answer:  A _Geiger_ counter
\par 3.  Invented in 1952 by Donald Glaser, it uses a superheated liquid near its boiling point.  When a particle passes through the liquid, it heats it into a gas in pockets along its path.
\par Answer:  The _Bubble Chamber_
\par 
\par 3. Given the following colorfully titled works, give the author for ten points each. 
\par 1. "The Pit and the Pendulum"
\par Answer: Edgar Allan _Poe_
\par 2. The Color Purple
\par Answer: Alice _Walker_
\par 3. Black Beauty
\par Answer: Anna _Sewell_
\par 
\par 4. Answer this tennis bonus for stated number of points.
\par 1.  For 5 points: In June 1973, Billie Jean King, then ranked #2 in women's tennis, defeated what obnoxious opponent in an extremely well attended exhibition match? 
\par Answer: Bobby _Riggs_
\par 2.  For 10 points: Where was this match held?
\par Answer: The _Astrodome_
\par 3.  For 15 points: What Australian, then ranked #1 on the women's list, had Riggs defeated earlier that year? 
\par Answer: Margaret _Court_
\par 
\par 5. 30-20-10 identify the year in American history. 
\par 30: The last surviving founding father, James Madison, dies at his estate
\par in Montpelier, Virginia. 
\par 20: Martin Van Buren is elected as the 8th President of the U.S.
\par 10: The 60th anniversary of Declaration of Independence is celebrated. 
\par Answer:  _1836_
\par 
\par 6. Identify these artists FTP each.
\par 1. He designed framework of the Statue of Liberty and the famous Paris landmark named for him. 
\par Answer: Alexandre Gustave _Eiffel_
\par 2. He sculpted "Bronco Buster" and painted "A Dash for the Timber."
\par Answer:  Frederic _Remington_
\par 3. This impressionist painted _Haystacks_ and _Water Lilies_.
\par Answer: Claude _Monet_
\par 
\par 7. Given a description of a rock band followed by a description of a fam
ous work of literature, link the two together for 10 points each. For example, if I said "They sing 'Istanbul Not Constantinople' and the book is a famous saga by Rolvaag", you'd say "They Might be Giants in the Earth". 
\par 1. They sing the hit song "Aeroplane"; the novel is by Jane Austen and was recently made into a film released almost at the same time as "Sense and Sensibility". 
\par Answer: _The Red Hot Chili Peppersuasion_
\par 2. They sing "Roll with It" and "Champagne Supernova"; the novel by Theodore Dreiser is about an innocent country girl who is exposed to the impersonal cruelty of 1890's Chicago. 
\par Answer: _Oasister Carrie_
\par 3. Their last major studio album was "Zooropa"; the book is a tale of the sea by Richard Henry Dana, Jr. 
\par Answer: _U2 Years Before the Mast_
\par 
\par 8. There are 6 elements of the periodic table whose names begin with the letter "B".  For 5 points each, identify them. 
\par Answers: _Beryllium_, _Boron_, _Bromine_, _Barium_, _Bismuth_, _Berkelium_
\par 
\par 9. Identify the following world capitals given a country for 5 points each.
\par 1.  Morocco
\par Answer:  _Rabat_
\par 2. Australia
\par Answer: _Canberra_
\par 3. Costa Rica
\par Answer: _San Jose_
\par 4. Northern Ireland
\par Answer: _Belfast_
\par 5. Angola
\par Answer: _Luanda_
\par 6. Lichtenstein
\par Answer: _Vaduz_
\par 
\par 10. Identify these relatives of Odysseus FTP each.
\par 1. What is the name of Odysseus' wife, who was besieged by suitors while he was gone?
\par Answer: _Penelope_
\par 2.  Who was Odysseus' son, who went in search for his father and later assisted him in slaying Penelope's suitors?
\par Answer: _Telemachus_
\par 3. Who was Odysseus' father, who did not recognize Odysseus at first when he came back from his journeys?
\par Answer: _Laertes_
\par 
\par 11. Identify the composers of the following musical pieces for ten points each.
\par 1. _Goldberg Variations_
\par Answer: Johann Sebastian _Bach_
\par 2. _Clock_ and _Surprise_ symponies
\par Answer: Frans Joseph _Haydn_
\par 3. _Finlandia_
\par Answer: Jean _Sibelius_
\par 
\par 12. Given a nickname, identify the state, for 5 points each.
\par 1.  Beehive State
\par Answer: _Utah_
\par 2. Pine Tree State
\par Answer: _Maine_
\par 3. Land of Enchantment
\par Answer: _New Mexico_
\par 4. Magnolia State
\par Answer: _Mississippi_
\par 5. Equality State
\par Answer: _Wyoming_
\par 6. Cornhusker State
\par Answer: _Nebraska_
\par 
\par 13. Name the disease, 30-20-10.
\par 30: It is the most common autosomal recessive disease on Caucasians, affecting about 1 in 2500 newborns and carried by about 4% of the population. 
\par 20: It can be diagnosed by testing for the salt level in sweat, because a mutation in a chloride channel leads to salty sweat. 
\par 10: Patients suffer from lung obstruction and digestive impairment.  Infections in the lungs kill most patients, rather than the disease itself. 
\par Answer: _Cystic Fibrosis_
\par 
\par 14. Remember the Alamo! For the stated number of points, answer these questions about it:
\par 1. FTP, Who was the victorious Mexican General?
\par Answer: Antonio Lopez de _Santa Anna_
\par 2. For five points each, which two Americans commanded the Alamo?
\par Answers: William _Travis_ and James _Bowie_
\par 3: FTP, what commander defeated Santa Anna six weeks later at San Jacinto, evoking the slogan, "Remember the Alamo"?
\par Answer: Samuel _Houston_
\par 
\par 15. 30-20-10 Identify the author from works.
\par 30: _The Fitz Boodle Papers_ and _Denis Duval_
\par 20: _The Yellowplush Correspondence_ and _Henry Esmond_
\par 10: _The Book of Snobs_ and _Vanity Fair_
\par Answer: William Makepeace _Thackeray_
\par 
\par 16. There are lots of orders within class Mammalia.  Given an example of an animal from that order, identify the order for 10 points each.
\par 1. humans
\par Answer: _Primata_ or _Primates_
\par 2. blue whale
\par Answer:  _Cetacea_
\par 3. anteater
\par Answer: _insectivora_
\par 
\par 17. Given an Oscar-winning film, tell me who directed it for ten points apiece.
\par 1. _The Silence of the Lambs_
\par Answer: Jonathan _Demme_
\par 2. _One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest_ and _Amadeus_
\par Answer: Milos _Forman_
\par 3. _You Can't Take It With You_ and _It Happened One Night_
\par Answer: Frank _Capra_
\par 
\par 18. Identify the American authors of the following works.
\par 1. _Rabbit, Run_
\par Answer: John Hoyer _Updike_
\par 2. "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty"
\par Answer: James Grover _Thurber_
\par 3. _The Sot-Weed Factor_
\par Answer: John Simmons _Barth_
\par 
\par 19. 30-20-10  Identify this American figure.
\par 30:  He created the symbol of Santa Claus as a big jolly, bearded man partly to cheer up people during the Civil War.
\par 20:   Later, his political cartoons helped break Boss Tweed's political machine.
\par 10:   He is best known for popularizing the Democratic donkey and creating the Republican elephant.
\par Answer:  Thomas _Nast_
\par 
\par 20. Identify these chemical elements given their Latin name FTP each.
\par 1. Stannum
\par Answer: _Tin_
\par 2. Plumbum
\par Answer: _Lead_
\par 3. Hydrargyrum
\par Answer: _Mercury_
\par }}