{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}
{\f53\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f54\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f56\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f57\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f58\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Jason Hong}{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min3}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min9}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2366}{\nofchars13489}
{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws16565}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1200 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale112\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f6\cgrid0 Game 4
\par 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Packet 1 by Matt Colvin
\par 
\par 1.  In chemistry, it's the term for a compound which results from the replacement o
f one or more hydrogen atoms of an acid by metal atoms.  Usually crystalline at room temperature, they form positive and negative ions when dissolved.  FTP, name this type of compound exemplified by halite, or sodium chloride.
\par Answer: _Salt_
\par 
\par 2.  A noted marine biologist, he was the son of Taisho, and his reign was marked by wars against China in the 1930s.  In 1945, he renounced his divine status and agreed to a new constitution making him a constitutional monarch.  FTP, name this Emperor of 
Japan during World War II.
\par Answer:  _Hirohito_
\par 
\par 3.  Standing 27 inches high, it is located in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.  Originally conceived as a representation of Dante, this figure was designed as part of an ambitious ensemble of bronze
 statues called the Gates of Hell.  FTP, what is this meditative figure by Auguste Rodin?
\par Answer:  The _Thinker_
\par 
\par 4.  He was converted to Christianity while visiting Norway, and intended to return to Greenland to convert the cononists.  Instead, he went off course and landed in a place he called Vinland.  FTP, name this lucky Norse explorer, the son of Eric the Red.

\par Answer:  _Leif Ericson_
\par 
\par 5.  He calls Merlin a "maundering old ass."  He transfers five hundred knights from horseback to bicycles, and surroun
ds a castle with an electric fence.  He is the superintendent of a Hartford arms factory who was hit on the head and transported back in time.  FTP, name this character named Hank Morgan created by Mark Twain.
\par Answer:  A _Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court_ (prompt on Hank Morgan or "the Boss" if given early)
\par 
\par 6.  Born on the same day as Abraham Lincoln, he was the grandson of the famous porcelain-maker Josiah Wedgwood.  While in the Galapagos islands, he theorized that the many varieties of finches 
were descended from a common ancestor.  FTP, name this man who took a cruise on the HMS Beagle before publishing his _Origin of Species_.
\par Answer:  Charles _Darwin_
\par 
\par 7.  Also called Aotearoa by its natives, its smaller territories include Stewart Island, th
e Ross Dependency, and the Cook Islands.  Separated from the nearest continent by the Tasman Sea, its two main islands are divided by the Cook Strait.  FTP, name this nation, the home of the Maori, whose cities include Aukland, Christ Church, and Wellingt
on.
\par Answer:  _New Zealand_
\par 
\par 8.  The Union was under the command of Irvin McDowell.  The Confederate army was led by General Beauregard.  The confederates retreated to Henry House Hill, where Stonewall Jackson held back Union troops until reinforcements unde
r Johnston arrived.  FTP, name this action fought on July 21, 1861, also called the battle of Manassas.
\par Answer:  The _First_ Battle of _Bull Run_ (accept "First Manassas" on early buzz.  Also, prompt for a number on "Bull Run" or "Manassas")
\par 
\par 9.  One of th
e daughters of Phorcys and Ceto, she was impregnated by Poseidon in the Temple of Athena, which caused Athena to authorize her death and place her head on Zeus' aegis.  Her sisters were Stheno and Euryale, and from her decapitated corpse sprang Pegasus.  
FTP, name this Gorgon killed by Perseus.
\par Answer:  _Medusa_
\par 
\par 10.  In differential form, it comprises two of Maxwell's field equations.  It states that the surface integral of the normal compnent of magnetic flux over any closed surface in a dialectric is equ
al to zero.  FTP, name this rule formulated by a German mathematician.
\par Answer:  _Gauss's_ Law
\par 
\par 11.  The product of 250 years of one Macedonian family's inbreeding, she and her brother, a child of 12 years, suceeded to the throne jointly with the provision that they should marry.  She drove him off the throne with the help of Julius Caesar, and gave
 birth to his son, Caesarion.  FTP, name this lover of Mark Antony, the queen of Egypt.
\par Answer:  _Cleopatra_ VII
\par 
\par 12.  He served as minister to Spain in 1942, but he is better known as a writer.  His works include "Bracebridge Hall" and "Tales of a Traveler
."   He wrote a "A History of New York" under the pseudonym Diedrich Knickerbocker, as well as "The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon."  FTP, name this author of "Rip Van Winkle" and "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow."
\par Answer:  Washington _Irving_
\par 
\par 13.  He was aut
horized by the Pierce adminstration to offer Santa Anna up to fifty million dollars for two-hundred fifty square miles.  In the end, Mexico ended up giving up only 55 thousand square miles for fifteen million dollars, but it was enough to complete the tra
nscontinental railroad.  FTP, name this diplomat who negotiated the purchase of this land in New Mexico and Arizona.
\par Answer:  James _Gadsden_ or Gadsden Purchase
\par 
\par 14.  An incarnation of Krishna, it was found in the Indian town of Puri.  There, during the an
nual festival of Rathayatra, a gigantic idol representing the god was drawn on an enormous wooden car from its temple to a garden house, and worshippers threw themselves under its huge wheels.  FTP, what is this idol that has given its name to an invincib
le crushing force.
\par Answer:  The _Juggernaut_
\par 
\par 15.  Traditionally, it presents a pair of contrasting images, one suggestive of time and place, the other a vivid observation, as in this example: 
\par "Now the swinging bridge
\par Is quieted with creepers ...
\par Like our tendrilled life."
\par The verse form was perfected by the poet Basho.  FTP, name this type of Japanese poetry in three lines of five, seven, and five syllables.
\par answer:  _Haiku_
\par 
\par 16.  In 1519, he set sail from Cuba despite the cancellation of his commission by
 Velazquez who suspected that he would try to establish himself as an independent governor.  He sailed along the Yucatan and subjugated Tabasco, filling the natives with awe because they believed him to be the god Quetzalcoatl.  FTP, name this conqueror o
f the Aztecs.
\par Answer:  Hernan or Hernando _Cortez_
\par 
\par 17.  Its orbit is titled 17 degrees relative to the plane of the Earth's orbit, and is also highly noncircular.  It was discovered when, while looking at photographs of the constellation Gemini, Clyde Tomb
augh discovered a start that flickered.  FTP, name this object that, may or may not be a planet, but has a moon, Charon.
\par Answer:  _Pluto_
\par 
\par 18.  He met Esther Johnson, to whom he wrote the "Journal to Stella," but it is uncertain if he ever married her.  In 1729, he published his ironical "A Modest Proposal," suggesting that poor people should raise their children to be eaten.  FTP, name this
 satirist most famous for _Gulliver's Travels_.
\par Answer:  Jonathan _Swift_
\par 
\par 19.  Born with the last name Ulyanov, his elder brother was hanged for plotting to assassinate Czar Alexander III.  At the end of his first period in Siberai, he went abroad and publ
ished the newspaper called "Iskra" or "The Spark."  He also wrote "What is to Be Done?"  FTP, name this leader of the Bolsheviks.
\par Answer:  Vladimir Ilyich _Lenin_
\par 
\par 20.  At the age of 5, his father still had not given him a name, but insistance of his eldes
t brother, Wilhelm Friedemann, he gave him three initials, which he said stood for nothing.  Described as the last, and by all means the least of twenty-odd children, his works include the cantata Iphigenia in Brooklyn and The Pervertimento for Bagpipes, 
Bicycle, and Balloons.  FTP, name this musical hoax of Peter Schickele.
\par Answer:  _PDQ Bach_
\par 
\par 21.  The subject of a book by Francis Parkman, it featured the difficult climb through the Blue Mountains, and the descent from Fort Walla Walla down the Columbia R
iver -- usually done with Conestoga covered wagons.  The goal was the Willamette Valley, two thousand miles from the starting point in Independence Missouri.  FTP, name this overland route followed by migrants in the 1840s.
\par Answer:  The _Oregon Trail_
\par \page 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Bonuses
\par Packet 1 by Matt Colvin
\par 
\par 1.  Answer these questions about chess, 10 each:
\par 1.  In 1972, Boris Spassky of Russia was defeated in Reykjavik, Iceland, giving the world championship to what American?
\par Answer:  Bobby _Fischer_
\par 2.  Bobby Fischer was stripped of his title after he failed to accept a match with what russian challeng4e in 1975?
\par Answer:  Anatoly _Karpov_
\par 3.  Karpov was later defeated by what current champion?
\par Answer:  Gary _Kasparov_
\par 
\par 2.  Answer the following about the year 1792, 10 each:
\par 1.  Work was begun on what building in Washington D.C. designed by William Thornton?
\par Answer:  The _Capitol_
\par 2.  David Rittenhouse was named the first director of what Philadelphia-based facility authorized by the Coinage Act?
\par Answer:  The U.S. _Mint_
\par 3.  The Merhcants Coffee House in New York became the site of what trading institution?
\par Answer:  The New York _Stock Exchange_
\par 
\par 3.  Identify the following Edgar Allan Poe short stories from brief descriptions, 10 each:
\par 1.  Montresor gets his friend drunk and walls him up with brick and mortar.
\par Answer:  The _Cask of Amontillado_
\par 2.  Men search for the buried treasure of Captain Kidd on Sullivan's Island, using a scarab.
\par Answer:  The _Gold-Bug_
\par 3.  A mother and daughter are found killed, but all the exits to the house are locked from the inside.  C. Auguste Dupin pins the crime on an orangutan.
\par Answer:  The _Murders in the Rue Morgue_
\par 
\par 4.  For 5 points each, tell me to what class in the Linnaean classification system the following animals belong:
\par 1.  The giant squid
\par Answer: _Cephalopoda_ or cephalopods
\par 2.  Frogs
\par Answer:  _Amphibia_ or amphibians
\par 3.  Snails
\par Answer:  _Gastropoda_ or gastropods
\par 4.  Ants
\par Answer:  _Insecta_ or insects
\par 5.  Birds
\par Answer:  _Aves_
\par 
\par 5.  Identify the name shared by the kings with the following nicknames:
\par 1.  The Pious, the Stammerer, the Young, the Child, the German.
\par Answer:  _Louis_
\par 2.  The Fat, the Simple, the Bad, the Bald, the Fair, the Great.
\par Answer:  _Charles_
\par 3.  The Fair, the Bold, the Handsome, the Arabian, and "of Macedon."
\par Answer:  _Philip_
\par 
\par 6.  Answer the following about Euripides' play _Medea_, 10 each:
\par 1.  The sorceress Medea is the princess of what region on the eastern shore of the Black sea?
\par Answer:  _Colchis_
\par 2.  As a witch, Medea was a devoted follower of what Greek goddess of crossroads?
\par Answer:  _Hecate_
\par 3.  As she fled from Colchis with Jason, she delayed her father's pursuing ships by cutting up Apsyrtus and throwing him into the water.  What was Apsyrtus' relation to Medea?
\par Answer:  He was her _brother_ (or she was his _sister_)
\par 
\par 7.  Answer the following about protozoans, 10 each.
\par 1.  The only naturally occuring wheel is found in this organelle that serves as the primary means of locomotion for members of the Phylum mastigophora ("mast ih GOFF uhr uh")
\par Answer:  _Flagellum_
\par 2.  Members of the genus Trypanosoma cause trypanosomiasis, also known as African Sleeping Sickness.  The protozoan is transmitted by the bite of what insect?
\par Answer:  The _Tsetse Fly_
\par 3.  Amoebas and other sarcodines move by cytoplasmic streaming, using what extensions of cytoplasm?
\par Answer:  _Pseudopods_ or pseudopodia
\par 
\par 8.  Identify the poems from which the following lines are taken, for 10 points each:
\par 1.  "Theirs not to make reply,
\par Theirs not to reason why,
\par Theirs but to do and die."
\par Answer:  The _Charge of the Light Brigade_
\par 2.  "The self-same moment I could pray;
\par And from my neck so free
\par The Albatross fell off, and sank
\par Like lead into the sea."
\par Answer:  The _Rime of the Ancient Mariner_
\par 3.  "'Beauty is truth, truth beauty,' -- that is all
\par Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know."
\par Answer:  _Ode on a Grecian Urn_.
\par 
\par 9.  Answer these U.S. history questions, 10 each:
\par 1.  In 1867, Oliver Hudson Kelley founded the Patrons of Husbandry, an association of farmers otherwise known by what name?
\par Answer:  The National _Grange_
\par 2.  1867 also saw the publication of the first of the Ragged Dick novels, written by what author?
\par Answer:  Horatio _Alger_ Jr.
\par 3.  In the same year, what secretary of state under Andrew Johnson was ridiculed for his purchase of Alaska?
\par Answer:  William Henry _Seward_
\par 
\par 10.  Answer the following about the philosophical work _The Metaphysic of Morals_, 10 each:
\par 1.  The work contains the sentence: "Act only on that maxim through which you can at the same time will that it should become a universal law."  What is the two-word term for this rule?
\par Answer:  The _Categorical Imperative_
\par 2.   What philosopher, the formulator of the categorical imperative, was the author of "The Metaphysic of Morals"?
\par Answer:  Immanuel _Kant_
\par 3.  Kant wrote three works, the [blank] of Pure Reason, the [blank] of Practical Reason, and the [blank] of Judgement.  What same word completes all three titles?
\par Answer:  _Critique_
\par 
\par 11.  Answer the following about the metals Magnesium, Calcium, Strontium, and Barium, 10 each:
\par 1.  These are all metals of Group II of the Periodic table, the Alkali Earth metals.  This means that they have what valence charge?
\par Answer:  _+2_
\par 2.  For 10 points, name either of the other two members of Group II.
\par Answer:  _Beryllium_ or _Radium_
\par 3.  Magnesium, Calcium, Strontium, and Barium were all discovered by what English chemist, the mentor of Michael Faraday?
\par Answer:  Sir Humphrey _Davy_
\par 
\par 12.  In the cartoon "Peanuts," Snoopy often sits at his typewriter on top of his doghouse and attempts to write a novel.  Answer the following about this attempt:
\par 1.  Time and again, Snoopy begins his masterpiece with what hackneyed and trite opening seven-word phrase?
\par Answer:  _"It was a dark and stormy night...."_
\par 2.  The line "It was a dark and stormy night" was actually the opening of _Paul Clifford_, a work by what Victorian English novelist?
\par Answer:  Edward _Bulwer-Lytton_
\par 3.  Edward Bulwer-Lytton is most famous for his historical novel about the "Last Days" of what ancient city?
\par Answer:  _Pompeii_
\par 
\par 13.  Tell me who served as vice-president under the following presidents of the United States, 10 each:
\par 1.  Martin Van Buren
\par Answer:  Richard M. _Johnson_
\par 2.  Grover Cleveland's second term
\par Answer:  Adlai E. _Stevenson_
\par 3.  John Quincy Adams
\par Answer:  John C. _Calhoun_
\par 
\par 14.  Name the authors of the following French works, 10 each:
\par 1.  Camille
\par Answer:  Alexandre _Dumas fils_ or the younger
\par 2.  The Phantom of the Opera
\par Answer:  Gaston _Leroux_
\par 3.  The Man in the Iron Mask
\par Answer:  Alexandre _Dumas_ pere
\par 
\par 15.  Identify the cellular organelles that accomplish the following tasks, 10 each:
\par 1.  Divided into smooth and rough varieties, this is a membrane system that serves as a transport.
\par Answer:  _Endoplasmic Reticulum_
\par 2.  These organelles form to digest food in amoebas and the contractile type expells excess water.
\par Answer:  _Vacuole_
\par 3.  Proteins are manufactured in these round organelles attached to the endoplasmic reticulum.
\par Answer:  _Ribosomes_
\par 
\par 16.  Answer the following about U.S. history and literature, 10 each:
\par 1.  In 1935 Dr. Carl A. Weiss assassinated what Louisiana governor who called himself the Kingfish and announced a Share-the-Wealth plan?
\par Answer:  Huey Pierce _Long_
\par 2.  Huey Long was the basis for the novel _All the King's Men_ by what first poet laureate of the United States?
\par Answer:  Robert Penn _Warren_
\par 3.  The similarly titled best-seller _All the President's Men_ was written by what two Washington Post reporters who uncovered the Watergate scandal?
\par Answer:  Carl _Bernstein_ and Bob _Woodward_
\par 
\par 17.  Given some battles, name the war in which they were fought, 10 each:
\par 1.  Cannae and Lake Trasimene.
\par Answer:  _Second Punic_ War (prompt on Punic)
\par 2.  Siege of Sevastopol, the Battle of Balaklava, the Battle of the Alma.
\par Answer:  The _Crimean_ War
\par 3.  Battle of Stormberg, Battle of Colenso, Siege of Mafeking
\par Answer:  The Second _Boer_ War
\par 
\par 18.  Answer the following about subatomic particles, 10 each:
\par 1.  Up, down, top, and bottom are all "flavors" of what particle?
\par Answer:  _Quarks_
\par 2.  Quarks are named for a word found in what book by James Joyce?
\par Answer:  _Finnigan's Wake_
\par 3.  How many quarks make up a baryon, such as the proton?
\par Answer:  _Three_
\par 
\par 19.  30-20-10 Name the author from works:
\par 30:  _King, Queen, Knave_, _Bend Sinister_, and _Invitation to a Beheading_
\par 20:  _Pale Fire_ and _Laughter in the Dark_
\par 10:  _Lolita_
\par Answer:  Vladimir _Nabokov_
\par 
\par 20.  Name the artists who painted the following, 10 each:
\par 1.  The Blue Boy
\par Answer:  Thomas _Gainsborough_
\par 2.  The Yellow Christ
\par Answer:  Paul _Gauguin_
\par 3.  Arrangement in Black and Gray: The Artist's Mother
\par Answer:  James Abbott McNeil _Whistler_
\par }}