{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}
{\f53\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f54\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f56\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f57\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f58\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Jason Hong}{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min3}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min9}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2410}{\nofchars13742}
{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws16876}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1200 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale111\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f6\cgrid0 Game 5
\par 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Packet 2 by Matt Colvin
\par 
\par 1.  He was confined in Florida, then moved to the Comanche and Kiowa reservation in Oklahoma.  He became a successful farmer, converted to Christianity, and rode in Theodore Roose
velt's inaugural parade.  Twenty years before, he and 35 of his warriors resisted U.S. troops for 18 months.  FTP, name this Apache chief whose name is still shouted as the battle cry of paratroopers.
\par Answer:  _Geronimo_ (Goyathlay)
\par 
\par 2.  He hated the Troja
ns because he and Apollo had been forced to serve as slaves under King Laomedon, who had them build the walls of the city.  He hated Odysseus for killing his son Polyphemus.  And he hated Athena for defeating him in a contest over the city of Athens.  FTP
, name this spiteful Greek god of the sea.
\par Answer:  _Poseidon_
\par 
\par 3.  It is characterized by fever, headach, pain in the loins, and a rash on the peripheral parts of the body.  Known scientifically by the name variola, a vaccine for this disease was discovere
d in 1796 in Gloucestershire, England.  FTP, name this disease eradicated thanks to Edward Jenner.
\par Answer:  _Smallpox_
\par 
\par 4.  John Keat's "On First Looking into Chapman's Homer" is an example of this form of poetry.  The rules for its composition were establ
ished by Guittone of Arezzo, who broke it down into the octave, or first eight lines, and the sestet, or last six.  FTP, name this type of poem written by Petrarch to Laura.
\par Answer:  _Sonnet_
\par 
\par 5.  His opposition to the Bank of the United States gained him 
favor with Andrew Jackson, who nominated him to the Supreme Court in 1835.  The senate rejected him, but Jackson nominated him a second time to replace John Marshall.   Once in, he struck down several federal laws during the Civil War.  FTP, name this chi
ef justice who wrote the opinion in the Dred Scott case.
\par Answer:  Roger (Brooke) _Taney_
\par 
\par 6.  It is peculiar because it incorporates all three orders of column -- Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian.  Construction on it was started by Vespasian, and it was dedicat
ed by his son Titus.  Its spectators were shaded by a vela, or awning that was operated by off-duty sailors, and 4th-century documents put its capacity at 87,000 persons.  FTP, name this "Flavian ampitheatre."
\par Answer:  The _Colosseum_
\par 
\par 7.  They may be dete
cted by an instrument consisting of a silicon-diode rectifier connected to an amplifier.  Used in masers, they are dangerous in high densities.  Ranging from one millimeter to 30 centimeters in wavelength, and from one to 300 gigahertz in frequency, they 
bridge the gap between radio waves and heat waves.  FTP, name this form of radiation used in cooking.
\par Answer:  _Microwaves_
\par 
\par 8.  In 1051, he visited his cousin, Edwrd the Confessor, and may well have received a promise that he would succede to the English t
hrone.  He married Matilda of Flanders.  In 1064, Harold Godwinson was at his court, and swore to help him gain the English crown.  FTP, name this king who made Harold pay for breaking this oath by defeating him at the battle of Hastings.
\par Answer:  _William_ the Conqueror (or William of Normandy or William I)
\par 
\par 9.  His second novel, _Giovanni's Room_, dealt with his experience in Paris as an expatriate writer.  In 1955, he produced the play _The Amen Corner_, and 8 years later became a major 
civil rights spokesman with _The Fire Next Time_.  FTP, name this Harlem writer best known for _Go Tell It on the Mountain_.
\par Answer:  James _Baldwin_
\par 
\par 10.  The Moabites summoned this man to put a curse on the Israelites, but God came to him and said, "Go a
head, but do only what I tell you."  As he rode with his two servants walking next to him, an angel of God stopped his ass with a drawn sword in hand, and he beat the donkey to get her back on the road.  FTP, name this man whose donkey talked to him.

\par Answer:  _Balaam_
\par 
\par 11.  He was at the Young Men's Christian Association Training School in Springfield Massachusetts, when he was invited by Luthur Gulick, head of the school's physical education department, to devise a new form of indoor team sport for the win
ter.  FTP, name this man who took peach bushels and invented basketball.
\par Answer:  James _Naismith_
\par 
\par 12. British general Gage had been reinforced by British troops from overseas; with them came Generals William Howe, John Burgoyne, and Henry Clinton.  On Ju
ne 15, 1775, the Massachusetts Committee of Safety ordered Artemas Ward to fortify Charlestown Heights, but William Prescott built an earthen fort on Breed's Hill instead.  FTP, name this conflict, one of the earliest of the American Revolution.
\par Answer:  The Battle of _Bunker Hill_
\par 
\par 13.  Of all the kinds of radioactive decay, they are the least powerful in penetrating ability.  An atom emitting them changes both its atomic number and its mass number, losing two protons and two neutrons.  FTP, name this type
 of particle consisting of a bare helium nucleus.
\par Answer:  _Alpha_ particles
\par 
\par 14.  Along with the main island, this British dependency occupies Kowloon Peninsula on the mainland; Stonecutters Island; and Lantau island.  Partly situated in the Pearl River d
elta, it was used as a naval base by Britain in the Opium Wars, and was ceded to the British in the Treaty of Nanking.  FTP, name this nation with its capital at Victoria, scheduled to revert to Chinese sovereignty in 1997.
\par Answer:  _Hong Kong_
\par 
\par 15.  In th
is play, a professor of phonetics takes on the task of transforming a Cockney flower girl from a guttersnipe into an elegant woman, and succeeds, but the two do not marry.  He is Henry Higgins; she is Eliza Doolittle.  FTP, name this George Bernard Shaw p
lay, later turned into the musical "My Fair Lady", based on a Greek myth about a sculptor who marries his creation.
\par Answer:  _Pygmalion_
\par 
\par 16.  In 1969, he led a coup that overthrew King Idris I and in 1977, he instituted the "jamahiriyah" or "state of the m
asses."  Blamed for the bombing of a German disco, he was injured and his infant daughter was killed in 1986 when the U.S. bombed his nation.  FTP, name this dictator who has financed all manner of terrorism from his nation of Libya.
\par Answer:  Colonel Muammar _Qadafi_ or Qaddafi or Qadaffi or Ghadafi or Khadafi, etc.
\par 
\par 17.  Dinoflagellates and foraminifera, small crustaceans, jellyfish, worms and mollusks, di
atoms, golden algae, bacteria, green algae, and the eggs and larvae of animals.  These are the constituents of a class of marine organisms that are too small or weak to swim against the current.  FTP, name these drifting organisms split beetween zoo- and 
phyto- subdivisions.
\par Answer:  _Plankton_
\par 
\par 18.  The characters in this tale live and talk like humans but have charming individual animal personalities.  A tender portrait of the English countryside, it tells of the life on the river bank experienced by Wate
r Rate, Mole, and Mr. Toad.  FTP, name this children's fantasy by Kennth Grahame.
\par Answer:  The _Wind in the Willows_
\par 
\par 19.  After serving in the Navy in World War I, he became a stage manager and walk-on actor before making his film debut in 1930.  The husb
and of Lauren Bacall, he won the 1951 Best Actor Oscar for "The African Queen."  FTP, name this star of "The Maltese Falcon" and "Casablanca."
\par Answer:  Humphrey _Bogart_
\par 
\par 20.  On December 16, 1944, taking advantage of weather that grounded Allied aircraft,
 the Germans advanced through the hilly and wooded Ardennes country, 31 miles into Belgium and Luxembourg in an effort to retake Antwerp.  Their advance was halted near the Meuse, and they managed to avoid being cut off by an Allied pincer movement and re
treated.  FTP, name this last German offensive of World War II.
\par Answer:  The Battle of the _Bulge_
\par 
\par 21.  The first was Saint Hippolytus, from 217-235 A.D.  Others included Felix, Ursinus, Eulalius, Lawrence, Dioscurus, theodore, Paschal, Constantine, Philip
, Anastasius, Christopher, John XVI, and Benedict X.  FTP, name this title applied to any pope whose election was later declared uncanonical.
\par Answer:  _Antipope_
\par \page 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Bonuses
\par Packet 2 by Matt Colvin
\par 
\par 1.  Tell whether the following plants are angiosperms, gymnosperms, pteropsids or bryophytes, 5 each:
\par 1.  Hornworts
\par Answer:  _Bryophyte_
\par 2.  Ginkgos
\par Answer:  _Gymnosperm_
\par 3.  Blue Spruce
\par Answer:  _Gymnosperm_
\par 4.  Peach Tree
\par Answer:  _Angiosperm_
\par 5.  Maple
\par Answer:  _Angiosperm_
\par 6.  Ferns
\par Answer:  _Pteropsids_
\par 
\par 2.  Answer the following about the Kennedy assassination, stated number of points:
\par 1.  For 5 points:  From what building did Lee Harvey Oswald fire his shots?
\par Answer:  The _Texas School Book Depository_ Building
\par 2.  For 10 points:  What then-governor of Texas who was riding in the same car was also severely wounded by the bullets?
\par Answer:  Gov. John _Connolly_
\par 3.  For 15 points:  What man shot the film footage of the assassination that has been scrutinized ever since?
\par Answer:  Abraham _Zapruder_
\par 
\par 3.  Answer these questions about American transcendentalist authors, 10 each:
\par 1.  Henry David Thoreau wrote this book about his life in a shack on a pond on the outskirts of Concord.
\par Answer:  _Walden_ or Life in the Woods
\par 2.  Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote this poem that features the line, "Here once th' embattled farmer stood // and fire the shot heard round the world."
\par Answer:  _Concord Hymn_
\par 3.  Thoreau and Emerson both tutored this woman, whose father Bronson was a leading transcendentalist.  Name this writer of "Little Women."
\par Answer:  Louisa May _Alcott_
\par 
\par 4.  Answer the following about the Persian Wars, 10 each:
\par 1.  The first attack on Greece, which was foiled at the battle of Marathon, was authorized by this Persian King, who died in 486 while planning another invasion.
\par Answer:  _Darius I_ or the Great
\par 2.  After his father's defeat at Marathon, this son of Darius resolved to punish the Greeks, and though he won the battle of Thermopylae, he was defeated at Salamis in 480.
\par answer:  _Xerxes_ I or Ahasuerus
\par 3.  The Greek commander at Salamis was what man who had convinced the Athenians to build a fleet with a recently discovered windfall of silver rather than hand out the money to the people.
\par Answer:  _Themistocles_
\par 
\par 5.  30-20-10 Name the composer from works:
\par 30:  The Waldstein piano sonata, the Diabelli variations, and the Archduke Trio.
\par 20:  Incidental music to Egmont, the Rasumovsky Quartets, and the three Leonora overtures.
\par 10:  The opera Fidelio, and the Moonlight sonata.
\par Answer:  Ludwig van _Beethoven_
\par 
\par 6.  Answer these astronomy questions, 10 each:
\par 1.  There are two of these zones in the Earth's magnetosphere where charged particles are confined by the Earth's magnetic field.  One has an altitude of about 1 and a half times the Earth's radius, while the other is up to four times as far away.
\par Answer:  _Van Allen_ Belts
\par 2.  Thought to be at a great distance from the sun, this is the cloud of bodies from which comets originate.
\par Answer:  The _Oort_ Cloud
\par 3.  This is the stream of charged subatomic particles flowing steadily outward from the Sun at supersonic speed that pervades all interplanetary space.
\par Answer:  the _Solar Wind_
\par 
\par 7.  30-20-10, name the legendary figure.
\par 30:  He is thought to have been a historic king of the Geats, and is mentioned in some lists of kings as having lived before Odin.  He performs his exploits in the service of King Hrothgar on the island of Zealand.
\par 20:  He is the subject of the earliest extant poem of Old English epic.
\par 10:  He kills Grendel and Grendel's mother.
\par Answer:  _Beowulf_
\par 
\par 8.  Answer the following about the election of 1876, 10 each:
\par 1.  Who officially won the election of 1876, becoming President?
\par Answer:  Rutherford B. _Hayes_
\par 2.  When the popular vote was counted, this man had about 200 thousand more than Rutherford B. Hayes, but lost the election anyway.
\par Answer:  Samuel J. _Tilden_
\par 3.  1876 saw the formation of what political party devoted to the expansion of the supply of paper money?
\par Answer:  The _Greenback_ Party
\par 
\par 9.  Name these American artists from works, 10 each:
\par 1.  Wire sculptures, such as _Josephine Baker_ and _Big Red_, a mobile.
\par Answer:  Alexander "Sandy" _Calder_
\par 2.  _Watson and the Shark_ and _Boy With a Squirrel_
\par Answer:  John Singleton _Copley_
\par 3.  _Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way_ and _Washington Crossing the Delaware_
\par Answer:  Emanuel Gottlieb _Leutze_
\par 
\par 10.  Given a country, name the man who chiefly represented it at the Congress of Vienna.
\par 1.  The Austrian minister of State.
\par Answer:  Prince Klemens von _Metternich_
\par 2.  The French diplomat who represented the restored French King Louis XVIII.
\par Answer:  Charles Maurice de _Talleyrand_-Perigord
\par 3.  The foreign minister of England who accompanied the Duke of Wellington.
\par Answer:  Robert Stewart, Viscount _Castlereagh_
\par 
\par 11.  Name these two novels from clues for 15 points each, or for 5 each if you need the authors.
\par 1.  For 15:  Made into a Francis Ford Coppola film, this book was written in 1897 opens with the narrator's carriage ride up to a castle.
\par For 5 points:  The author is Bram Stoker.
\par Answer:  _Dracula_
\par 2.  For 15:  Subtitled "the Modern Prometheus", it was written as part of a contest to see who could write the best horror story.
\par For 5 points:  The author is Mary Shelley.
\par Answer:  _Frankenstein_
\par 
\par 12.  Answer these anatomy questions for 10 each:
\par 1.  What is the name of the continuous tube running through the ventral body cavity from the mouth to the anus, through all the digestive organs?
\par Answer:  The _alimentary_ canal or gastrointestinal tract
\par 2.  Food is moved along the alimentary canal by what process of successive contractions?
\par Answer:  _Peristalsis_
\par 3.  This valve connects the stomach with the duodenum, the first part of the small intestine.
\par Answer:  The _Pyloric_ sphincter or valve
\par 
\par 13.  Bill Clinton notwithstanding, the title of most corrupt president must surely go to Warren Harding.  Answer the following about his administration, 10 each:
\par 1.  Harding's term was scandalized by the illegal lease of this naval oil reserve site located in Wyoming.
\par Answer:  _Teapot Dome_
\par 2.  The man who did the leasing was what secretary of the interior?
\par Answer:  Albert B. _Fall_
\par 3.  Also implicated in the scandal was what attorney general and former campaign manager of Harding's who originated the term "smoke-filled-room"?
\par Answer:  Harry Micajah _Daugherty_
\par 
\par 14.  Name these unusual mammals:
\par 1.  Of genus name Tachyglossus, these animals have an extensile tongue suitable for catching ants and termites.  Its back is covered with stiff spines, and it lays eggs.
\par Answer:  The short-nosed _echidna_ (prompt on "spiny anteater")
\par 2.  The hairy-nosed variety of this animal has genus name Lasiorhinus.  It has chisel-like incisors like a rodent, and is about the size of a beaver.  It gives birth to a single young, which is carried in its mother's pouch for about six months.
\par Answer:  _Wombat_
\par 3.  Taking its name from the Greek for "broad foot", it has poisonous spurs on its inner hind legs, and webbed feet.  Like the echidna, it lays eggs.
\par Answer:  The _Platypus_
\par 
\par 15.  Answer the following about Treasure Island, 10 each:
\par 1.  First, who wrote it?
\par Answer:  Robert Louis _Stevenson_
\par 2.  What villainous pirate is always accompanied by his parrot, Cap'n Flint?
\par Answer:  _Long John Silver_
\par 3.  Who is the narrator of the story, a young boy who shows the treasure map to Squire Trelawney and overhears Long John Silver's plans of mutiny?
\par Answer:  _Jim Hawkins_
\par 
\par 16.  For 10 points each, name the lovers of the following mythological figures:
\par 1.  Leander
\par Answer:  _Hero_
\par 2.  Pyramus
\par Answer:  _Thisbe_
\par 3.  Baucis
\par Answer:  _Philemon_
\par 
\par 17.  For 10 points each, tell who the NBA MVP was in each of the following seasons:
\par 1.  1990
\par Answer:  Michael _Jordan_
\par 2.  1967
\par Answer:  Wilt _Chamberlain_
\par 3.  1995
\par Answer:  David _Robinson_
\par 
\par 18.  Given a capital, name the African country, 5 each:
\par 1.  Nouakchott
\par Answer:  _Mauritania_
\par 2.  Kampala
\par Answer:  _Uganda_
\par 3.  Conakry
\par Answer:  _Guinea_
\par 4.  Yaounde
\par Answer:  _Cameroon_
\par 5.  Lilongwe
\par Answer:  _Malawi_
\par 6.  Kinshasa
\par Answer:  _Zaire_
\par 
\par 19.  Name the Shakespeare plays from which the following quotes are taken, 10 each:
\par 1.  "The quality of mercy is not strain'd,
\par It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven
\par Upon the place beneath: it is twice bless'd..."
\par Answer:  The _Merchant of Venice_
\par 2.  "All the world's a stage,
\par And all the men and women merely players..."
\par Answer:  _As You Like It_
\par 3.  "The rest is silence."
\par Answer:  _Hamlet_
\par 
\par 20.  Given some holders of a cabinet post, name the position, 10 each:
\par 1.  E.R. Stettinius Jr., Cyrus Vance, Cordell Hull.
\par Answer:  Secretary of _State_
\par 2.  Manuel Lujan, Bruce Babbitt, Harold Ickes.
\par Answer:  Secretary of the _Interior_
\par 3.  Elizabeth Dole, James Davis, Robert Reich.
\par Answer:  Secretary of _Labor_
\par }}