{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}
{\f53\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f54\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f56\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f57\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f58\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Jason Hong}{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min3}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min9}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2125}{\nofchars12118}
{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws14881}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1200 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale105\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f6\cgrid0 SEMIFINAL
\par 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Packet 4 by David Hamilton
\par 
\par 1.  He ousted General Naguib and helped create the United Arab Republic.  He nationalized the Suez Canal and fought the June, 1967 war against Israel.  FTP, name this statesman who was elected President of Egypt in 1956.
\par Answer:  Gamal Abdel _Nasser_
\par 
\par 2.  Born in Canada of Russian-Jewish parents, this novelist's first works were _Dangling Man_ and _The Victim_, a power portait of urban alienation. FTP, who is this author of _The Adventures of Augie March_, _Herzog_, and _Humboldt's Gift_?
\par Answer: Saul _Bellow_
\par 
\par 3.  The thermal efficiency of this theoretical device is 1 minus the quantity of the higher temperature reservoir divided by the cooler reservoir. FTP, what is this engine consisting of two adiabatic and two isothermal processes, named after its Frenc
h formulater?
\par  Answer: _Carnot_ engine
\par 
\par 4.  He wore a helmet to disguise his misshapen head, and was taught by the philosopher Anaxagoras.  The patron of Phidias and lover of Aspasia, he died of plague during the Peloponnesian War.  FTP, name this leader of Athens during the Golden Age.
\par Answer:  _Pericles_
\par 
\par 5.  Raised in Pennsylvania, this American poet and novelist settled in Paris in 1903 with her brother and her secretary. FTP, who is this member of the "lost generation" who wrote _Three Lives_ and _An Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas_?
\par Answer: Gertrude _Stein_
\par 
\par 6.  Near the end of his life, this Spaniard painted dark and misanthropic pictures like _Saturn Devouring His Children_. FTP, who was this court painter to Charles IV who depicted the horrors of war in his _The Third of May, 1808_?
\par Answer: Francisco Jose de _Goya_ y Lucientes
\par 
\par 7.  The site was the Hradcany Castle.  The date was May 23, 1618.  What was on the ground is a subject of debate.  Catholics maintained that it was hay.  Protestants claimed 
that it was dung.  Either way, two diplomats came flying out the window and landed on the ground.  FTP, name this incident in Bohemia that marked the beginning of the Thirty Years' War.
\par Answer:  The _Defenestration of Prague_
\par 
\par 8.  The second largest phylum in the animal kingdom, its classes include Polyplacophore, Scaphopoda, Cephalopoda, Bivalva, and Gastropoda. FTP, what is this phylum which contains the chitons, chambered nautilus, squid, clams, and snails?
\par Answer: _Mollusca_ or _molluscs_
\par 
\par 9.  Born in D
anzig, this novelist was wounded in WW II and moved to Paris in 1955 where he turned to writing works like _Local Anaesthetic_ and _The Flounder_. FTP, who is this author of the Danzig trilogy of _Cat and Mouse_, _Dog Years_, and _The Tin Drum_?
\par Answer: Gunter Wilhelm _Grass_
\par 
\par 10.  This mathematician became totally blind around 1766, but still continued to publish treatises on pure mathematics, physics, and astronomy. His phi function is useful in number theory, and he standardized notations like "e" and pi. FTP, who was this S
wiss mathematician, the most prolific ever?
\par Answer: Leonhard _Euler_
\par 
\par 11.  Rear Admiral Kimmel and General Walter Short were found guilty of errors of judgment.  Eight American battleships and 10 other naval vessels were sunk and almost 200 aircraft were de
stroyed.  3000 naval personnel were killed or wounded.  Among the ships was the USS Arizona.  FTP, name this December 7, 1941 sneak attack on an inlet of Oahu, Hawaii.
\par Answer:  _Pearl Harbor_
\par 
\par 12.  This novel takes place on the _Pequod_ and includes characters like Starbuck and the harpooners Daggoo and Queequeg. FTP, what is this Herman Melville novel in which Captain Ahab pursues a great white whale?
\par Answer: _Moby Dick_, or The Whale
\par 
\par 13.  This composer married Caroline Alice Roberts in 1889, and moved to
 Malvern two years later, where he devoted himself to composition. FTP, who is this English composer of the oratorio _The Dream of Gerontius_, _The Enigma Variations_, and the "Pomp and Circumstance" march?
\par Answer: Sir Edward _Elgar_
\par 
\par 14.  The father of Ni
obe, this man tested the gods' omniscience by serving them his own son Pelops at a banquet. As punishment, he stands perpetually in a lake that soaks up when he tries to drink, and above him are ripe fruits that fly out of reach when tries to eat. FTP, wh
o is this unfortunate sufferer of Hades?
\par Answer: _Tantalus_
\par 
\par 15.  Columbus discovered this country in 1492 and made his son Diego its first viceroy. President Johnson sent Marines when leftists rebelled in 1965, and Joaquin Balaguer was elected president a 
year later. FTP, what is this country that shares the island of Hispaniola with Haiti and has captial at Santo Domingo?
\par Answer: _Dominican Republic_
\par 
\par 16.  This star, the thirteenth brightest in the sky, is located about 600 light years from the earth. A re
d supergiant of class M1, it has a mysterious bright hotspot on its surface. FTP, what is this bright star in Orion that is over 1000 times larger than the Sun?
\par Answer: _Betelgeuse_
\par 
\par 17.  This psychiatrist broke with Freud in 1913, and began to develop his
 own theories of analytical psychology. In his 1923 _Psychological Types_, he formulated the idea of introversion and extroversiom. FTP, who is this Swiss who developed the theory of the "collective unconscious"?
\par Answer: Carl Gustav _Jung_
\par 
\par 18.  Among the 
kings of this city were Laomedon, who was slain by Heracles, and Ilus, the founder of the city.  Located on the hill of Hissarlik, it was rediscovered in 1870 by German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann.  FTP, name this city of King Priam that was sacked 
by Agamemnon and the Greeks in a ten-year war.
\par Answer:  _Troy_
\par 
\par 19.  He defended the gold standard against William Jennings Bryan, and ran an efficient campaign thanks in part to his manager, Mark Hanna.  Reelected in 1900, he died in Buffalo, New York when he was shot by an anarchist named Leon Czolgosz.  FTP, name t
his man who was succeeded as President by Theodore Roosevelt.
\par Answer:  William _McKinley_
\par 
\par 20.  He established his capital in modern-day Uzbekistan in the city of Samarkand.  He invaded India and captured Delhi.  The subject of a play by Christopher Marlowe
, he conquered territory from India to the Mediterranean.  FTP, name this man whose nickname was given to him because his left side was partially disabled.
\par Answer: _Tamerlane_ or _Timur the Lame_
\par 
\par 21.  This man visited the Acamedy of Projectors in Lagado, 
where scholars wasted their time trying to extract sunbeams from cucumbers and convert ice into gunpowder. FTP, who is this character who also visited Laputa, Brobdingnag, and Lilliput in a 1726 work by Jonathan Swift?
\par Answer: Lemuel _Gulliver_
\par \page 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Bonuses
\par Packet 4 by David Hamilton
\par 
\par 1.  Answer the following questions about a circuit with an 18 volt power source and three resistors connected in parallel, with resistance of 3 ohms, 6 ohms, and 9 ohms.
\par 1. What is the voltage across the 6 ohm resistor?
\par Answer: _18_ volts
\par 2. What is the equivalent resistance of the three resistors?
\par Answer: _18/11_ ohms
\par 3. What is the power dissipated by the 9 ohm resistor?
\par Answer: _36_ watts
\par 
\par 2.  Identify the Russian authors of the following works of literature FTP each.
\par 1. _The Lower Depths_
\par Answer: Maksim _Gorky_ or Aleksey Maksimovich _Peshkov_
\par 2. _Eugene Onegin_ and _The Queen of Spades_
\par Answer: Aleksandr Sergeyevich _Pushkin_
\par 3. _A Hero of Our Time_
\par Answer: Mikhail Yuryevich _Lermentov_
\par 
\par 3.  Identify the following 19th century American painters FTP each.
\par 1. The most famous of the Hudson River School artists, this teacher of Frederic Church was born in England. His paintings include _The Oxbow_, _Catskill Mountains_, and the _Voyage of Life_ series.
\par Answer: Thomas _Cole_
\par 2. This man chronicled life on the Missouri and Mississippi rivers in works like _The Jolly Flatboatmen in Port_ and _Fur Traders Descending the Missouri_.
\par Answer: George Caleb _Bingham_
\par 3. An avid outdoorsman, he painted people rowing, sailing, and hunting. In order to master the nude figure, he enrolled in the anatomy course at Jefferson Medical College, where his _The Gross Clinic_ is set.
\par Answer: Thomas _Eakins_
\par 
\par 4.  Answer the following about the Magna Carta, 10 each:
\par 1.  By what English King, called "Lackland," was the document signed?
\par Answer:  King _John_
\par 2.  In what year was it signed?
\par Answer:  _1215_
\par 3.  The barons met John in 1215 in what field on the Thames River in Surrey?
\par Answer:  _Runnymede_
\par 
\par 5.  Expand each of the following computer acronyms FTP each.
\par 1. COBOL
\par Answer: _Common Business Oriented Language_
\par 2. LISP
\par Answer: _List Processing_
\par 3. FORTRAN
\par Answer: _Formula Translation_
\par 
\par 6.  Identify the Charles Dickens novels from characters FTP each.
\par 1. Uriah Heep and Mr. Micawber
\par Answer: _David Copperfield_
\par 2. Bob Cratchit and Tiny Tim
\par Answer: A _Christmas Carol_
\par 3. John Jarndyce and Esther Summerson
\par Answer: _Bleak House_
\par 
\par 7.  FTP each, answer the following questions about the Oedipus myth.
\par 1. What was the name of Oedipus' real father, whom he killed in a standoff at a place where three roads met?
\par Answer: _Laius_
\par 2. Who is the blind prophet who forsees Oedipus' downfall?
\par Answer: _Teiresias_
\par 3. For a final ten points, who is the brother of Jocasta who succeeds Oedipus to the throne after Oedipus' self-inflicted exile?
\par Answer: _Creon_
\par 
\par 8.  Identify the following men who researched animal learning and behavior on a 5-10-15 basis.
\par 1. While studying digestion, this Russian physiologist noticed that after a time of conditioning, a bell alone could trigger salivation for expected food.
\par Answer: Ivan _Pavlov_
\par 2. This Austrian author of _On Agression_ used goslings in his experiments on imprinting.
\par Answer: Konrad _Lorenz_
\par 3.  This psychologist tried to train pigeons to guide rockets during World War II.  He is the author of _Walden Two_.
\par Answer:  B. F. _Skinner_
\par 
\par 9.  Answer the following about the Spanish-American War.
\par 1.  In 1969, a U.S. Navy research investigation determined that a defective boiler caused the 1897 explosion of what battleship in Havana harbor?
\par Answer:  The _Maine_
\par 2.  The First Volunteer Cavalry Regiment was better known by what nickname?
\par Answer:  The _Rough Riders_
\par 3.  The Rough Riders, led by Theodore Roosevelt, led the charge up Kettle Hill, which flanked a Spanish fortification on what other hill by whose name the action is now known?
\par Answer:  _San Juan_ Hill
\par 
\par 10.  Answer the following questions about the Apollo 11 mission.
\par 1. FTP, all or nothing, what was the month, day, and year that the _Eagle_landed on the Sea of Tranquility?
\par Answer: _July 20, 1969_
\par 2. FTP, all or nothing, who were the two astronauts who landed in the lunar module?
\par Answer: Neil A. _Armstrong_ and Edwin E. "Buzz" _Aldrin_
\par 3. For a final ten points, who was the pilot of the command ship _Columbia_, the other member of the Apollo 11 crew?
\par Answer: Michael _Collins_
\par 
\par 11.  30-20-10, identify the African nation.
\par 30:  Mungo Park explored it in 1795, and it is the home nation of Nobel Prize-winning poet Wole Soyinka.
\par 20:  The Christian Ibo tribe withdrew from this nation to form the country of Biafra in 1967.
\par 10:  Its capital is Abuja, but the largest city is Lagos.
\par Answer:  _Nigeria_
\par 
\par 12.  Identify the composers of the following operas FTP each.
\par 1. _Hansel and Gretel_, 1893
\par Answer: Engelbert _Humperdinck_
\par 2. _Der Rosenkavalier_, 1911
\par Answer: _Richard Strauss_
\par 3. _Dido and Aeneas_, 1689
\par Answer: Henry _Purcell_
\par 
\par 13.  Arrange the Great Lakes in decreasing order of size for five points each and a five point bonus for all in correct order.
\par Answer: _Superior_, _Huron_, _Michigan_, _Erie_, _Ontario_
\par 
\par 14.  Identify the following science fiction authors from works on a 10-5 basis.
\par 1.  For 10 points: _Starship Troopers_ and _Space Cadet_
\par For 5 points: _Stranger in a Strange Land_
\par Answer: Robert Anson _Heinlein_
\par 2.  For 10 points: _Dandelion Wine_ and _When Elephants Last in the Dooryard Bloomed_
\par For 5 points _The Martian Chronicles_ and _Farhenheit 451_
\par Answer: Ray Douglas _Bradbury_
\par 3.  For 10 points:  "The Nine Billion Names of God" and _Childhood's End_
\par For 5 points:  _2001: A Space Odyssey_ and _The City and the Stars_
\par Answer: Arthur Charles _Clarke_
\par 
\par 15.  On March 8th, 1862, a Confederate ship called the Virginia rammed and sank the USS Cumberland and USS Congress.  Answer the following:
\par 1.  What was the other name given to the Virginia, an ironclad ship with 10 large guns?
\par Answer:  The _Merrimack_
\par 2.  What Union ship, described as a "cheesebox on a raft," moved to meet the Virginia on the following day?
\par Answer:  The _Monitor_
\par 3.  The battle of the Monitor and Merrimack took place at what site near Norfolk?
\par Answer:  _Hampton Roads_
\par 
\par 16.  Answer the following questions about the Greek god Zeus for the stated number of points.
\par 1. For five points each, who were Zeus' parents?
\par Answer: _Cronus_ and _Rhea_
\par 2. For 10 points, which sister-wife of Zeus was the goddess of marriage and family? She was the mother of Ares and Hebe.
\par Answer: _Hera_
\par 3.  For a final ten points, who was Zeus' first wife, an oceanid whose name means "cleverness"? Zeus swallowed her while she was pregnant with Athena, and she was born when Hephaestus struck Zeus' head with an ax.
\par Answer: _Metis_
\par 
\par 17.  Identify the author from works 30-20-10.
\par 30:  "The Postmistress of Laurel Run" and _The Lost Galleon and Other Tales_
\par 20:  "Plain Language From Truthful James" and _Tales of the Gold Rush_
\par 10:  "The Luck of Roaring Camp" and "The Outcasts of Poker Flat"
\par Answer: Francis Bret _Harte_
\par 
\par 18.  On July 19th and 20th, 1848, the first public political meeting in the United States dealing with women's rights was held in New York.  Answer the following about it for 10 points each:
\par 1.  First, what was the name of the convention, also the name of the New York town in which it was held?
\par Answer:  The _Seneca Falls_ Convention
\par 2 and 3.  Now, for 10 points each, who were the two Quaker women who organized it?
\par Answer:  Lucretia _Mott_ and Elizabeth Cady _Stanton_
\par 
\par 19.  Your bonus is on the periodic table.  Answer the following:
\par 1.  Aluminum, Gallium, Arsenic, and Antimony are all what kind of element that has properties of both metals and non-metals?
\par Answer:  _Metalloids_
\par 2.  The metals in the first group of the periodic table -- lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, cesium, and francium -- are known by what collective name?
\par Answer:  _alkali_ metals
\par 3.  The second group of the periodic table contains calcium, strontium, barium, and radium -- all divalent metals.  The group is also called by this name.
\par Answer:  _alkali earth_ metals or alkaline earth metals
\par 
\par 20.  Give the capitals of the following African nations, 5 each:
\par 1.  Burkina Faso
\par Answer:  _Ouagadougou_
\par 2.  Botswana
\par Answer:  _Gaborone_
\par 3.  Djibouti
\par Answer:  _Djibouti_
\par 4.  Ghana
\par Answer:  _Accra_
\par 5.  Benin
\par Answer:  _Porto-Novo_
\par 6.  Chad
\par Answer:  _N'Djamena_
\par }}