{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}
{\f53\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f54\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f56\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f57\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f58\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Jason Hong}{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min3}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr18\min9}{\version2}{\edmins2}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords1979}{\nofchars11281}
{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws13853}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1200 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale124\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f6\cgrid0 PLAYOFF -- SEMIQUARTERFINAL
\par 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Packet 2 by David Hamilton
\par 
\par 1. Born in 1386, this sculptor created the _Gattamelata_, an equestrian statue of the Venetian Erasmo de Narni, and _The Feast of Herod_ for Siena Cathedral. FTP, who was this Renaissance sculptor of _Zuccone_ and _St. George and the Dragon_?
\par Answer: _Donatello_ or Donato de Betto Bardi
\par 
\par 2. His best-known novels take place in Altamont and concern Eugene Gant, a young man of robust energies and intense emotion. FTP, who is this author of _The Web and the Rock_, _Of Time and the River_, and _Look Homeward, Angel_?
\par Answer: Thomas Clayton _Wolfe_
\par 
\par 3.
 Intrusive equivalents of this type of igneous rock are gabbro or peridotite. Composed largely of plagioclase feldspar and pyroxene, it is usually dark and fine grained. FTP, what is this volcanic rock that forms most of the seafloor's underlying rock and
 island plateaus like Iceland?
\par Answer: _basalt_
\par 
\par 4. The last name's the same: William was the first Englishman to visit Japan, Brooks was a historian who wrote _The Law of Civilizarion and Decay_, Charles Francis was a US arbitrator in the Alabama claims, S
amuel was a signer of the Declaration of Independence and organizer of the Sons of Liberty, and John Quincy was the sixth president of the U.S. FTP, what is the common surname?
\par Answer: _Adams_
\par 
\par 5. This state's name comes from an Iroquoian word meaning "land of tomorrow." Its highest point is the 4145 foot Black Mountain, and its motto is "United We Stand, Divided We Fall." FTP, what is this Bluegrass state with capital at Frankfort?
\par Answer: _Kentucky_
\par 
\par 6. This Greek playwright was killed when an eagle dropped a tortoise on his bald head, which he mistaked for a stone. FTP, who is this author of _The Suppliant Women_, _Seven Against Thebes_, the _Oresteia_ trilogy, and _Prometheus Bound_?
\par Answer: _Aeschylus_
\par 
\par 7. Formation of oxalosuccinic acid, alpha-ketoglut
aric acid, fumaric acid, and malic acid are some of the intermediate steps in this stage of respiration, named after the British scientist who elucidated its system. FTP, what is this cycle followed by the electron transport chain?
\par Answer: _Krebs_ cycle or _citric acid_ cycle
\par 
\par 8. In 1794, President Washington sent troops into Western Pennsylvania to put down an uprising by settlers who opposed an 1791 excise tax on liquor. FTP, what was this rebellion that demonstrated the government's power to enforce its laws?
\par Answer: _Whiskey_ rebellion
\par 
\par 9. This composer won the Prix de Rome in 1857 with _Le Docteur Miracle_, and is other operas include _The Fair Maid of Perth_ and _The Pearl Fishers_. His most famous opera is set in Seville and tells the story of a gypsy
 girl and the corporal Don Jose. FTP, who is this composer of _Carmen_?
\par Answer: Georges _Bizet_ or Alexandre Cesar Leopold _Bizet_
\par 
\par 10. Sir Thopas, Melibee, the Franklin, the Shipman, the Man of Law, the Manciple, the Prioress, the Summoner, the Pardoner, 
and the Miller are some of the pilgrims who tell their tales on their way to Thomas a Becket's shrine in Canterbury in what unfinished Geoffrey Chaucer work?
\par Answer: The _Canterbury_ Tales
\par 
\par 11. This element, discovered in 1807 by Sir Humphry Davy, has a melting point of 98 degrees Celsius and can be isolated using the Downs process. FTP, what is this alkali metal, element number 11 with symbol Na?
\par Answer: _Sodium_
\par 
\par 12. This man's portait was on the $10,000 bill until it was discontinued in 1969. He w
as a governor of Ohio and became Secretary of the Treasury in 1861. FTP, who was this sixth chief justice of the Supreme Court who presided over Andrew Johnson's impeachment trial in 1868?
\par Answer: Salmon Portland _Chase_
\par 
\par 13. He recently appeared on 60 min
utes where he perfomed magic tricks for Fidel Castro, played a practical joke on Ed Bradley, and was knocked over by a kindergartener.  He is no longer "mean and pretty", after years of Parkinson's disease, and rarely speaks.  FTP, name this great heavywe
ight boxer, born Cassius Marcellus Clay.
\par Answer:  Muhammad _Ali_
\par 
\par 14. This poet wrote a novel, _The Enormous Room_, but is more famous for collections like _ViVa_ and _Tulips and Chimneys_. FTP, who is poet known for his eccentric use of typography and punctuation?
\par Answer: Edward Estlin _Cummings_
\par 
\par 15. This type of function can be used to easily program the Towers of Hanoi Problem, print a line of text backwards, calculate factorials, or any problems in which each action can be stated in terms of a previous 
result. FTP, what is the term for a fuction that calls itself until it reaches a stopping condition?
\par Answer: _recursive_ function or _recursion_
\par 
\par 16. This Greek hero killed his own grandfather Acrisius with a discus, fulfilling an oracle's prophecy. With t
he help of the Graeae and Hermes, he was able to locate and kill Medusa. FTP, who was this hero who married Andromeda after rescuing her from the sea monster Ceto? 
\par Answer: _Perseus_
\par 
\par 17. This English political economist believed that crime, war, and disea
se are necessary checks on population, and he argued that population increases geometrically, while means of subsistence only increases arithmetically. FTP, who was this author of _An Essay on the Principle of Population_?
\par Answer: Thomas Robert _Malthus_
\par 
\par 18. Son of Germanicus Caesar and Agrippina, this Roman emperor who succeeded Tiberius wore military boots as a child, earning him the nickname "little boots." FTP, who was this emperor believed to be insane, who tried to make his horse Incitatus a consul 
before being assassinated in 41 AD?
\par Answer: _Caligula_ or Caius Caesar _Germanicus_
\par 
\par 19. _Reckoning_, _Life's Rich Pageant_, _Fables of the Reconstruction_,  _Murmur_, _Out of Time_, _Green_, and _Automatic for the People_ are some of the albums of what ban
d whose latest release, _Monster_, contains the songs "Star 69" and "What's the Frequency, Kenneth?"
\par Answer: _R.E.M._
\par 
\par 20. This collection was the basis for the Disney Movie, "Song of the South".  The characters, Brer Rabbit, Brer Fox, Brer Wolf, and the T
ar Baby, are invented by an old black man after whom the stories are named.  FTP, name this collection by Joel Chandler Harris.
\par Answer:  Tales of _Uncle Remus_ or Uncle Remus, His Songs and His Sayings
\par 
\par 21.  Th
e title of this 1961 novel has come to mean any situation in which the only solution is denied by a circumstance inherent in the problem. FTP, what is this novel featuring the anti-hero Captain Yossarian and Major Major Major, written by Joseph Heller?

\par Answer: _Catch-22_
\par \page 1996 Maryland Classic High School Tournament
\par Bonuses
\par Packet 2 by David Hamilton
\par 
\par 1. Identify the author from works 30-20-10.
\par 30) _Marco Millions_ and _The Hairy Ape_
\par 20) _Anna Christie_ and _Ah, Wilderness!_
\par 10) _Desire Under the Elms_ and _Mourning Becomes Electra_
\par Answer: Eugene Gladstone _O'Neill_
\par 
\par 2. Identify the US states from nicknames for five points each.
\par 1. Nutmeg State
\par Answer: _Connecticut_
\par 2.  Excelsior State
\par Answer: _New York_
\par 3. Centennial State
\par Answer:  _Colorado_
\par 4. Yellowhammer State
\par Answer: _Alabama_
\par 5. Palmetto State
\par Answer: _South Carolina_
\par 6. Gem State
\par Answer: _Idaho_
\par 
\par 3. A Grecian urn contains 5 red balls, 3 white balls, and 2 yellow balls, and every ball has an equal probability of being selected. For the stated number of points, solve the following problems and reduce your answer to a fraction in lowest terms.
\par 1. For 10 points, what is the probability of selecting a red ball?
\par Answer: _1/2_
\par 2. For twenty points, two balls are selected without replacement. What is the probability that the first ball was white given that the second ball was red? You have thirty seconds to answer.
\par Answer: _1/3_
\par 
\par 4. Identify the president who appointed the following Supreme Court justices for 10 points each.
\par 1. Earl Warren
\par Answer: Dwight David _Eisenhower_
\par 2. John Rutledge
\par Answer: George _Washington_
\par 3. Warren Burger
\par Answer: Richard Milhous _Nixon_
\par 
\par 5. Identify the writer who used pseudonyms from their real names FTP each, five if you need a work.
\par 1.  For 10 points: Eric Blair
\par For 5 points: _1984_ and _Animal Farm_
\par Answer: George _Orwell_
\par 2.  For 10 points:  Mary Ann Evans
\par For 5 points:  _Middlemarch_ and _Silas Marner_
\par Answer: George _Eliot_
\par 3.  For 10 points:  Amandine Lucie Dupin, Baronne Dudevant
\par For 5 points:  _Indiana_ and _Consuelo_
\par Answer: George _Sand_
\par 
\par 6. Identify the following vitamins given diseases that occur from a deficiency FTP each.
\par 1. Scurvy
\par Answer: _C_ or _Ascorbic acid_
\par 2. Beriberi
\par Answer: _B1_ or _Thiamine_
\par 3. Rickets or osteomalacia (Os-tee-oh-mah-lay-shuh)
\par Answer: _D_ or _calciferol_
\par 
\par 7. Answer the following questions about the history of early photography FTP each.
\par 1. This Frenchman improved on the work of Joseph Niepce and unveiled his camera in 1839. Name either the man or his process which created the first direct positive image on a silver plate.
\par Answer: Louis-Jacques-Mande _Daguerre_
\par 2. This American inventor of the telegraph introduced the daguerreotype to the United States.
\par Answer: Samuel Finley Breese _Morse_
\par 3. This Englishman is credited with the invention of photographic paper, and also developed the Calotype process.
\par Answer: William Henry Fox _Talbot_
\par 
\par 8. Identify the house that each of the following rulers of Great Britain belonged to for five points each.
\par 1. Henry VIII
\par Answer: _Tudor_
\par 2. Henry II
\par Answer: _Plantagenet_
\par 3. Richard III
\par Answer: _York_
\par 4. George III
\par Answer: _Hanover_
\par 5. Elizabeth I
\par Answer: _Tudor_
\par 6. Henry V
\par Answer: _Lancaster_
\par 
\par 9. Answer the following questions about Heracles' other adventures for 15 points each -- no, not the ones that UPN makes up for Kevin Sorbo's ridiculous TV show.
\par 1. While on his way to get the Apples of the Hesperides, Heracles came upon this giant who wrestled passers-by to death. Heracles had to strangle him since the giant became stronger every time he touched the earth. 
\par Answer: _Antaeus_
\par 2. Still looking for the Hesperides, Heracles found this Titan bound to a rock. He killed the eagle that ate out the Titan's liver every day, and set him free. FTP, who was this immortal who gave fire to humans? 
\par Answer: _Prometheus_
\par 
\par 10. FTP each, identify the three novels in John Dos Passos' U.S.A trilogy.
\par Answer: _The 42nd Parallel_, _1919_, and The _Big Money_
\par 
\par 11. Given the meaning of its name, identify the constellation for five points each. For example, "Great Bear" would be Ursa Major.
\par 1. Dragon
\par Answer: _Draco_
\par 2. Swan
\par Answer: _Cygnus_
\par 3. Whale
\par Answer: _Cetus_
\par 4. Ram
\par Answer: _Aries_
\par 5. Water Bearer
\par Answer: _Aquarius_
\par 6. Giraffe
\par Answer: _Camelopardalis_
\par 
\par 12. Identify the opera composer from works, 30-20-10.
\par 30: _The Girl of the Golden West_ and _Tosca_
\par 20: _Turandot_ and _Manon Lescaut_
\par 10: _Madama Butterfly_ and _La Boheme_
\par Answer: Giacomo _Puccini_
\par 
\par 13. Identify the Beat Movement authors of the following works FTP each.
\par 1. _Nova Express_ and _Naked Lunch_
\par Answer: William Seward _Burroughs_
\par 2. _Kaddish_ and _Howl_
\par Answer: Allen _Ginsberg_
\par 3. _The Dharma Bums_ and _Visions of Cody_
\par Answer: Jack _Kerouac_
\par 
\par 14. Though the United States is not supposed to trade with Cuba, the Department of Justice has been unable to keep out one import:  baseball players.  Given a Cuban baseball player, name the team he plays for, for 10 points each.
\par 1.  Ariel Prieto
\par Answer:  Oakland _Athletics_  (accept either or, including A's)
\par 2.  Osvaldo Fernandez
\par Answer:  San Francisco _Giants_  (accept either or)
\par 3.  Rey Ordonez
\par Answer:  New York _Mets_  (prompt on New York)
\par 
\par 15. Identify the following acids given their chemical formulae FTP each.
\par 1. HNO3
\par Answer: _Nitric_ acid
\par 2. H2SO3
\par Answer: _Sulfurous_ acid
\par 3. HClO4
\par Answer: _Perchloric_ acid
\par 
\par 16. Identify the explorers given some of their ships FTP each.
\par 1. _Pelican_ and _Golden Hind_
\par Answer: Sir Francis _Drake_
\par 2. _Hopewell_ and _Half Moon_
\par Answer: Henry _Hudson_
\par 3. _Endeavour_, _Resolution_, and _Discovery_
\par Answer: James _Cook_
\par 
\par 17. Identify the following writers associated with the Harlem Renaissance FTP each.
\par 1. This leading poet of the Harlem Renaissance's collections include _The Weary Blues_ and _Shakespeare in Harlem_. In 1956, he wrote _I Wonder as I Wander_, an autobiography.
\par Answer: James Langston _Hughes_
\par 2. This author also wrote an autobiography, _Black Boy_, but is more famous for his first novel, _Native Son_, which tells the story of Bigger Thomas.
\par Answer: Richard Nathaniel _Wright_
\par 3. A student of Franz Boas, this woman wrote _Mules and Men_, a study of black folkways in Florida, and _Their Eyes Were Watching God_.
\par Answer: Zora Neale _Hurston_
\par 
\par 18. Identify the Emmy Award winning outstanding comedy series for the following television seasons, five points if you need some of the characters in the show. 
\par 1.  For 10 points: 1990-1991
\par For 5 points: Sam Malone, Norm Peterson
\par Answer: _Cheers_
\par 2.  For 10 points: 1986-1987
\par For 5 points:  Sophia Petrillo, Rose Nylund
\par Answer: The _Golden Girls_
\par 3.  For 10 points:  1979-1980
\par For 5 points:  Tony Banta, Latka Gravas
\par Answer: _Taxi_
\par 
\par 19. Answer the following questions about the completion of the first US transcontinental railroad for the stated number of points.
\par 1. For ten points, in what year was the railroad line completed?
\par Answer: _1869_
\par 2. For five points each, at which point in which state did the two rail lines meet?
\par Answers: _Promontory_ Point, _Utah_
\par 3. For five points each, which two company's lines met in 1869 in Promontory Point, completing the first transcontinental railroad?
\par Amswers: _Union Pacific_ Railroad, _Central Pacific_ Railroad
\par 
\par 20. Identify the authors of the following muckraking works FTP each.
\par 1. _The Octopus_
\par Answer:  Frank _Norris_
\par 2. _A History of the Standard Oil Company_, 1904
\par Answer: Ida Minerva _Tarbell_
\par 3. _The Shame of the Cities_, 1904
\par Answer: Lincoln _Steffens_
\par }}