{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff7\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times;}
{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Geneva;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f5 \snext15 Default;}{\*\cs16 \additive \f7\fs18 Default SS;}{
\s17\qc\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \b\f4\fs28 \sbasedon15 \snext17 header;}{\s18\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4 \sbasedon15 \snext18 Body;}{\s19\qc\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \i\f4 \sbasedon15 \snext19 footer;}{
\s20\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20 \sbasedon15 \snext20 Footnote;}{\*\cs21 \additive \up6 Footnote Index;}}{\info{\author The Weiner Family}{\operator The Weiner Family}{\creatim\yr1999\mo8\dy17\hr10\min29}
{\revtim\yr1999\mo8\dy17\hr10\min29}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords2226}{\nofchars12689}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws15582}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale90\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd 
\sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f5\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f5\fs24 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f5 {1997 Cavalier Classic
\par Round 4
\par 
\par 
\par Tossups:
\par 
\par 1.  This collection of works is divided into three areas of study:  manners, philosophy, and marriage.  It consists of all of the author\rquote s novels an
d seeks to depict the entirety of French social life.  Among the most famous individual works are _Eugenie 
\par Grandet_ and _Pere Goriot_.  FTP name this collection of novels by Balzac, which shares its name with a work by William Saroyan.
\par 
\par Answer:  The _Human Comedy_ (or _Com\u142\'8edie Humaine_)
\par 
\par 2.  In 1889 he suffered a physical and mental breakdown that was probably caused by syphilis.  In the sixteen years previous to this he had published a series of books, often aphoristic, that denounced Christianity and celebrated the self-creating \'86
bermen
\par sch, or Overman.  FTP, name this German philosopher, best known for works like _The Birth of Tragedy_, _Beyond Good and Evil_, and _Thus Spake Zarathustra_.  
\par 
\par Answer:  Friedrich _Nietzsche_  
\par 
\par 3.  They received their name because they seem to be roughly the size of stars, though they produce too much energy to be stars.  It has been conjectured that they are the cores of distant galaxies, and that we only see them because the stars that surroun

\par d them are too far away to be viewed from Earth.  FTP, identify this kind of energy source, whose name is short for \ldblquote quasi-stellar object.\rdblquote 
\par 
\par Answer: Quasar
\par 
\par 4.  In 1951 he succeeded Clement Attlee as prime minister and served until 1955.  From 1956 to 1958, he published the _History of the English-Speaking Peoples_, and in 1953 received the Nobel Prize for Literature.  His finest hour came during World War II

\par  when he rallied the British people to victory as prime minister.  FTP name this man who formed the Big Three with Stalin and Roosevelt.
\par 
\par Answer:  Winston _Churchill_
\par 
\par 5.  Its motto is \ldblquote Union, justice, confidence.\rdblquote 
  Its state flower is the magnolia and state crustacean the crawfish.  FTP, name this state, which became the eighteenth state on April 30, 1812, and whose cities include New Iberia, Lake Charles, Lafayette, S
\par hreveport, and Baton Rouge.
\par 
\par Answer:  Louisiana
\par 
\par 6.  She started playing piano at age three and entered a conservatory at five.  Her father was a minister and her reaction to organized religion in evident in songs such as \ldblquote Leather\rdblquote  and \ldblquote God.\rdblquote   She has said, 
\ldblquote I have strong memories of being a prostitute 
\par in a former life.\rdblquote   FTP, name this singer of \ldblquote Crucify\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Silent All These Years.\rdblquote 
\par 
\par Answer:  Tori _Amos_
\par 
\par 7.  This battle occurred a month after the defeat of the Norwegians at Stamford Bridge.  It effectively resolved the succession crisis created by the death of Edward the Confessor.  During this battle, the Anglo-Saxon foot soldiers of Harold II were overc

\par ome by the Norman cavalry of William the Conqueror.  FTP name this 1066 battle that led to the Norman conquest of England.
\par 
\par Answer:  Battle of _Hastings_ 
\par 
\par 8.  He came to the United States in 1884, and worked with Edison before a quarrel led him to leave and work on his own.  He patented a number of his inventions, such as the alternating current induction motor, and went into a partnership with George Westi

\par nghouse to sell them.  FTP, name this Croatian born scientist, whose coil was used to generate high-frequency alternating current, after whom the SI unit of magnetic flux density is named.
\par 
\par Answer: Nikola _Tesla_
\par 
\par 9.  According to legend, she fled Phoenicia for North Africa after her brother Pygmalion killed her husband Sychaeus.  In North Africa she founded the city of Carthage and reigned as its queen.  FTP, identify this queen, who committed suicide after Aeneas

\par  left her. 
\par 
\par Answer:  _Dido_ (or _Elissa_ of Tyre)
\par 
\par 10.  Although born in Maldon, England, he sided with his adoptive country and fought in the American revolutionary army.  Following his greatest victory in 1777, he sought to supplant Washington as commander-in-chief.  In 1780, he was routed by Cornwallis

\par  at the Battle of Camden.  FTP name this general, the commander of the victorious American forces at Saratoga.
\par 
\par Answer:  Horatio _Gates_
\par 
\par 11.  When this writer was charged with embezzling funds from a bank, he fled to Honduras.  Returning to the U.S., he served three years in prison where he began writings stories such as \ldblquote Whistling Dick\rquote s Christmas Stocking\rdblquote  and 
\ldblquote A Retrieved Reformation.\rdblquote  
\par   FTP, name this author, who is most identified with short stories that end with an intriguing twist of fate such as \ldblquote The Last Leaf\rdblquote  and \ldblquote The Gift of the Magi.\rdblquote   
\par 
\par Answer:  _O. Henry_ (accept William Sydney _Porter_) 
\par 
\par 12.  The works of this man range from the realist \ldblquote Age of Bronze\rdblquote  of 1877 to the controversial tribute to Balzac of 1898.  During the last twenty years of his life, he worked on the 186 figures of \ldblquote The Gates of Hell.
\rdblquote   This project provided the inspiratio
\par n for many of his most famous sculptures, including \ldblquote The Kiss\rdblquote  and \ldblquote The Thinker.\rdblquote   FTP name this French sculptor.
\par 
\par Answer:  Auguste _Rodin_   
\par 
\par 13.  In 1978, scientists decided that the belief that these creatures had short skulls was due to a mix-up, and that they actually had longer skulls than had been thought.  Flourishing about 150 million years ago, they weighed up to 30 tons, and probably 

\par lived both in marshes and on dry land.  FTP, identify this type of dinosaur, herbivores which were around 70 feet long and which are also known as Apatosaurs.
\par 
\par Answer: _Brontosaurus_ or _Brontosaurs_ (accept _Apatosaurus_ or _Apatosaurs_ on early buzz)
\par 
\par 14.  This Western Church father criticized the Manicheans for their dualistic philosophy.  Once a Manichean himself, he underwent a famous conversion in 386 under the influence of Ambrose, an experience he recounted in his _Confessions_.  FTP name this sa

\par int, the author of _The City of God_ and namesake of a city in Florida.
\par 
\par Answer:  St. _Augustine_
\par 
\par 15.  While in a home for waifs, he learned to play the cornet.  In 1922 he joined King Oliver\rquote s band in Chicago, setting new standards for jazz musicianship.  In the late 1920\rquote 
s he switched to trumpet and began a career as a star soloist and scat singer t
\par hat would lead him to success in over fifty films and numerous world tours.  FTP name this jazz musician, a trumpeter who was nicknamed \ldblquote Satchmo.\rdblquote 
\par 
\par Answer:  Louis _Armstrong_
\par 
\par 16.  His greatest generals Narses and Belisarius reconquered much of North Africa and Italy.  His wife Theodora evoked controversy because of her scandalous former career as an actress.  FTP, name this Byzantine emperor, whose greatest achievement was the

\par  legal code produced between 529 and 565 that bears his name.  
\par 
\par Answer:  _Justinian_
\par 
\par 17.  Born and educated in Ireland, he left for Britain in 1752 and never returned to his homeland.  A close associate of Richardson and Johnson, he produced works as varied as the satirical _The Citizen of the World_ and the poetic \ldblquote 
The Deserted Village.\rdblquote 
\par   FTP, name this English writer, best known for comic plays like _The Good-Natur\rquote d Man_ and _She Stoops to Conquer_.
\par 
\par Answer:  Oliver _Goldsmith_
\par 
\par 18.  He worked as a doctor in Pavia before turning to laboratory science, and made his first major discovery in 1873 when he accidentally discovered that silver compounds could be used for staining.  He used his new technique to classify nerve cells and t

\par o show that nerve fibers were separated by synapses.  FTP, identify this Italian scientist, who first described a formation in the cell which produces glycoproteins and other necessary cell materials, an apparatus which is named for him.
\par 
\par Answer: Camillo _Golgi_
\par 
\par 19.  Minnesota in 1936.  Maryland in 1953.  Nebraska in 1971 and 1994.  According to different polls, Colorado or Georgia Tech in 1990.  Steve Spurrier\rquote s Florida squad in 1996.  Each of these teams has won what, FTP, sports title?
\par 
\par Answer:  _College Football National Championship_ (accept equivalents)
\par 
\par 20.  A woman commits forgery in order to save her husband\rquote s career.  He eventually discovers this, but his reaction reveals to her that he d
oes not view her as a human being, but rather as a beautiful object.  Resolving to live life more fully, Nora Helme
\par r leaves her husband and family at the end of this work.  FTP name this drama, written by Henrik Ibsen.
\par 
\par Answer:  A _Doll\rquote s House_ (or A _Doll House_)
\par 
\par EX.  The Treaty of London recognized it as an independent country in 1831.  In 1950, a referendum was held on the issue of the king\rquote s collaboration with the Nazis, and he was persuaded to resign in favor of his son, Baudouin (
BAW-doyn).  FTP, identify thi
\par s nation, ethnically divided between Walloons and the Flemish, whose cities include Ghent, Antwerp, and Brussels.
\par 
\par Answer: Belgium
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par Boni:
\par 
\par 1.  FTP each, identify the following elements.
\par 1.  It was discovered by Henry Cavendish in 1766; he later showed it to be part of water.
\par Answer: hydrogen
\par 2.  This element was discovered in 1868, after Pierre Janssen and Joseph Lockyer observed it in solar spectra.
\par Answer: helium
\par 3.  Paul Boisbaudran (BWA-bo-DHRAN) discovered it in 1875, making it the first of the elements predicted by Mendeleev to be discovered.
\par Answer: gallium
\par 
\par 2.  Name the Chinese political figures FTP each.
\par 1. This Nationalist leader retreated with his forces to Taiwan in 1949.
\par Answer:  _Chiang_ Kai-shek
\par 2. This man served as China\rquote s foreign minister from 1949 to 1958 and its prime minister from 1949 until his death in 1976.
\par Answer:  _Chou_ En-lai
\par 3. This man, the founder of the Guomindang, became president of the Chinese republic in 1912.
\par Answer:  Dr. _Sun_ Yat-sen
\par 
\par 3.  Name the American plays from a description, for the stated number of points.
\par 1. 5 points: Brick and Maggie fight while \ldblquote Big Daddy\rdblquote  Pollit dies of cancer.
\par Answer:  _Cat on a Hot Tin Roof_
\par 2. 10 points: College professor George and his wife Martha fight while they entertain another couple.
\par Answer:  _Who\rquote s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?_
\par 3. 15 points: The Younger family fights to leave their inner-city Chicago environment.
\par Answer:  _A Raisin in the Sun_
\par 
\par 4.  Name the world figure skating champions from the following years, FTP each.
\par 1. Male, 1981-1984
\par Answer:  Scott _Hamilton_
\par 2. Female, 1991-1992
\par Answer:  Kristi _Yamaguchi_
\par 3. Female, 1984-1985, 1987-1988
\par Answer:  Katarina _Witt_
\par 
\par 5.  Name the following regions of Spain FTP each.
\par 1. This central region contains the city of Madrid.
\par Answer:  _Castille_
\par 2. This southern area includes Seville.
\par Answer:  _Andalusia_
\par 3. This region\rquote s cultural center is located in Barcelona.
\par Answer:  _Catalonia_
\par 
\par 6.  Identify these parts of the atmosphere, FTP each.
\par 1.  Located between 7 and 30 miles from the Earth\rquote s surface, the ozone layer is co-extensive with this sphere.
\par Answer: the _stratosphere_
\par 2.  It lies beyond the stratoshpere and is divided into two parts, the mesosphere and the thermosphere.
\par Answer: the _ionosphere_
\par 3.  Lying beyond the thermosphere, it goes to about 625 miles out.
\par Answer: the _exosphere_
\par 
\par 7.  Name the Russian monarchs, for the stated number of points.
\par 1. 5 points: This tsar was killed along with his family in 1918.
\par Answer:  _Nicholas  II_
\par 2.  10 points: This tsar reigned at the time of Napoleon\rquote s invasion of Russia.
\par Answer:  _Alexander I_
\par 3.  15 points: Grand Prince of Moscow from 1462 to 1505, he took the title of \ldblquote Sovereign of All Russia\rdblquote  in 1493.
\par Answer: _Ivan III_ or _Ivan the Great_ (not the Terrible)
\par 
\par 8.  Name the actress who won the Best Actress Academy Award in the following years FTP each.
\par 1. 1945 for \ldblquote Mildred Pierce\rdblquote 
\par Answer:  Joan _Crawford_
\par 2. 1977 for \ldblquote Annie Hall\rdblquote 
\par Answer:  Diane _Keaton_
\par 3. 1993 for \ldblquote The Piano\rdblquote 
\par Answer:  Holly _Hunter_
\par 
\par 9.  Name these characters from the _Odyssey_ FTP each.
\par 1. This nymph imprisons Odysseus for seven years.
\par Answer:  _Calypso_
\par 2. Odysseus kills this cyclops by tricking him.
\par Answer:  _Polyphemus_
\par 3. This son of Odysseus helps him regain control of his kingdom of Ithaca.
\par Answer:  _Telemachus_
\par 
\par 10.  Answer these questions about the 1890s for the stated number of points.
\par 1. 10 points: The Italians were defeated at the Battle of Adowa in 1896 in this African country.
\par Answer:  _Ethiopia_
\par 2.  5 points: This British queen celebrated her diamond jubilee in 1897.
\par Answer:  _Victoria_ 
\par 3.  15 points: This treaty of 1895 ended the first Sino-Japanese War.
\par Answer: the treaty of _Shimonoseki_
\par 
\par 11.  Answer the following questions about telescopes, for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5 points:  It became the first optical telescope in space when it was launched in 1990.
\par Answer: the _Hubble_ Space Telescope
\par 2.  10 points: In 1608, this Dutch inventor patented the first telescope.
\par Answer: Hans _Lippershey_
\par 3.  15 points: Two identical telescopes sharing this name were built in Hawaii in 1991 and 1996.  They have mirrors 396 inches in diameter, with four times the light-gathering capacity of the Hale telescope.
\par Answer: _Keck_ I and II
\par 
\par 12.  Name the authors of these works set in India FTP each.
\par 1. _A Passage to India_
\par Answer:  E.M. _Forster_
\par 2. _Kim_
\par Answer:  Rudyard _Kipling_
\par 3. _Midnight\rquote s Children_
\par Answer:  Salman _Rushdie_
\par 
\par 13.  Name the composers of the following operas for the stated number of points.
\par 1. 5 points: _La Boheme_ (la bo-EM)
\par Answer:  Giacomo _Puccini_
\par 2. 10 points: _Otello_
\par Answer:  Giuseppe _Verdi_
\par 3. 15 points: _Lucrezia Borgia_
\par Answer:  Gaetano _Donizetti_
\par 
\par 14.  Identify these American political scandals FTP each.
\par 1. This group set up during the Grant administration defrauded the government of taxes due on liquor.
\par Answer:  _Whiskey Ring_
\par 2. Albert Fall went to jail for a year for his role in this Harding administration scandal.
\par Answer:  _Teapot Dome_
\par 3. Various greedy Congressmen were caught accepting bribes from supposed Arab businessmen in this late 1970s affair.
\par Answer: _Abscam_
\par 
\par 15.  Name these works by Jonathan Swift FTP each.
\par 1. This allegory satirizes the divisions within the Christian religion.
\par Answer:  _The Tale of the Tub_
\par 2. This essay proposes that the Irish should sell their children to be eaten.
\par Answer:  _A Modest Proposal_
\par 3. The third section of this work concerns the flying island of Laputa and pokes fun at the Royal Academy.
\par Answer:  _Gulliver\rquote s Travels_
\par 
\par 16.  Identify this thing, 30-20-10.
\par 1.  It was developed in 1902 by an Italian and modified in the 1930s by Harry Wood and Frank Neumann.
\par 2.  According to it, an intensity of 1 is only felt by a few people, while the maximum of 12 corresponds to total damage.
\par 3.  This scale, used for measuring the intensity of earthquakes, is largely overshadowed by the Richter scale.
\par Answer: the _Mercalli_ scale
\par 
\par 17.  Name the Latin American country ruled by these men FTP each.
\par 1. Emperor Pedro II from 1831 to 1889.
\par Answer:  _Brazil_
\par 2. Reform-minded president Porfirio Diaz, from 1876 to 1880 and then again >from 1884 until 1911.
\par Answer:  _Mexico_
\par 3. Dictator Augusto Pinochet, from 1973 to 1990.
\par Answer:  _Chile_
\par 
\par 18.  Name these saints for fifteen points each.
\par 1. This woman, patron saint of musicians and the blind, was killed for visiting with an angel.
\par Answer:  St. _Cecilia_
\par 2. This man is the patron of Russia, pawnbrokers, and little boys.
\par Answer:  St. _Nicholas_
\par 
\par 19.  Name the French artists who painted the following works FTP each.
\par 1. \ldblquote Oath of the Horatii,\rdblquote  1785
\par Answer:  Jacques Louis _David_
\par 2. \ldblquote Odalisque,\rdblquote  1814
\par Answer:  Jean Auguste Dominique _Ingres_
\par 3. \ldblquote Liberty Leading the People,\rdblquote  1831
\par Answer:  Eugene _Delacroix_
\par 
\par 20.  Name the writer from works on a 30-20-10 basis.
\par 1.  _An Outcast of the Islands_, _Under Western Eyes_
\par 2.  _The Secret Agent_, _The Secret Sharer_
\par 3.  _Lord Jim_
\par Answer:  Joseph _Conrad_
\par }\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f5\fs24 
\par }}