{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff7\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times;}
{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Geneva;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f5 \snext15 Default;}{\*\cs16 \additive \f7\fs18 Default SS;}{
\s17\qc\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \b\f4\fs28 \sbasedon15 \snext17 header;}{\s18\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4 \sbasedon15 \snext18 Body;}{\s19\qc\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \i\f4 \sbasedon15 \snext19 footer;}{
\s20\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20 \sbasedon15 \snext20 Footnote;}{\*\cs21 \additive \up6 Footnote Index;}}{\info{\author The Weiner Family}{\operator The Weiner Family}{\creatim\yr1999\mo8\dy15\hr1\min35}
{\revtim\yr1999\mo8\dy15\hr1\min37}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords2805}{\nofchars15990}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws19636}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale90\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd 
\sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f5\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f5\fs24 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f5 {1997 Cavalier Classic
\par Round 6
\par 
\par 
\par Tossups: 
\par 
\par 1.  After a successful career as a mining engineer, he won international praise during World War I as chairman of the American Relief Committee.  As secretary of commerce, from 1921 to 1928, he organized his department in order to aid business interests. 

\par  But the onset of the Great Depression destroyed the reputation of, FTP, what 31st president of the United States?
\par 
\par Answer: Herbert _Hoover_
\par 
\par 2.  Its largest moon moves in the opposite direction of its rotation, suggesting that it was captured after this planet formed.  Oddly, it radiates almost 3 times as much heat as it takes in from the sun, though it is otherwise almost identical to Uranus.

\par   FTP, identify this planet, discovered in 1846, which is the outermost of the gas giants.
\par 
\par Answer: Neptune
\par 
\par 3.  T.S. Eliot said that it would be a landmark because it destroys our civilization.  First published in Paris in 1922, it records the events that took place on June 16, 1904, focusing on the lives of three main characters.  FTP, identify this novel, whi

\par ch follows Leopold Bloom, Molly Bloom, and Stephen Dedalus through Dublin, considered the masterpiece of James Joyce.
\par 
\par Answer: Ulysses
\par 
\par 4.  The previous year\rquote 
s squad had compiled a 10-3-1 record, culminating in a humiliating loss to the Cowboys in the Super Bowl.  A promising campaign seemed in jeopardy when Bob Griese was injured, but the smash-mouth running of Mercury Morris and Larry Csonka combined with
 the \ldblquote no-name\rdblquote  defense to reach Super Bowl VII and defeat the Redskins.  FTP, what is this only team in NFL history to compile an undefeated season, going 17-0 in 1972?
\par 
\par Answer: 1972 Miami _Dolphins_
\par 
\par 5.  His grandfather Richard helped establish the Congregational Church in America.  His father was a well-known preacher who served as president of Harvard from 1685 to 1701 and played a role in the Salem witch trials.  He was a Puritan who believed equal

\par ly in witchcraft and Isaac Newton.  FTP name this son of Increase who shares his name with \ldblquote the fabric of our lives.\rdblquote 
\par 
\par Answer: _Cotton Mather_
\par 
\par 6.  This member of the Communist Party from 1932 to 1944 published his first work, _Uncle Tom\rquote s Children_, in 19
38.  After moving to Paris in 1946, he wrote the story collection _Eight Men_ and the novel  _White Man, Listen!_, but remained best known for 
\par his 1940 novel about the crimes and trial of Bigger Thomas.  FTP, name this author of _Native Son_ and the autobiography _Black Boy_.
\par 
\par Answer: Richard Nathaniel _Wright_
\par 
\par 7.  Found in cell nuclei, they are circular strands in bacteria, but linear threads in plants and animals.  In meiotic cell divisions, each daughter cell receives only a half-copy of these from each parent gamete, but in mitosis the daughter cells receive

\par  full copies.  FTP, name these DNA strands of which humans have forty-six.
\par 
\par Answer: _chromosomes_
\par 
\par 8.  It came after the empire of Tamerlane and preceded the rise of the Mahrattas.  Before breaking up under the reign of Aurangzeb, some of its notable rulers included Jahangir and Baber, who began the empire in 1526.  FTP, name this Muslim-Tartar empire 

\par in India once ruled by Shah Jahan, but never by Hollywood executives.
\par 
\par Answer: _Mogul_ Empire
\par 
\par 9.  Cities in this country include Escuintla, Puerto Barrios, and Quezaltenango.   The Quiche (key-SHEY) and Cakchiquel (kak-SHIH-kell) are principal dialects in this nation, which is bordered by El Salvador, Honduras, Belize, and Mexico.  FTP, name this 

\par Central American republic, whose currency is the quetzal, and whose capital shares its name with the country.
\par 
\par Answer: Guatemala
\par 
\par 10.   He first appeared in 1887, died in 1893, but returned in 1903.  He been busy ever since, usually in the company of a veteran army surgeon.  Over the years, he has taken on the appearance of such diverse personalities as Charlton Heston, Peter Cushin

\par g, Jeremy Brett and Basil Rathbone.  FTP, name this detective, the most famous creation of Arthur Conan Doyle.
\par 
\par Answer: Sherlock _Holmes_
\par 
\par 11.  Held prisoner by his family for more than a year after declaring his intention to lead a religious life, he eventually found his way to Paris and began his studies under Albertus Magnus. Reconciling reason and faith, his philosophy later became a cor

\par nerstone of Roman Catholic belief.  FTP, name this Dominican saint, known as the \ldblquote Angelic Doctor,\rdblquote  who wrote the _Summa contra Gentiles_ and _Summa Theologica_.
\par 
\par Answer: St. Thomas _Aquinas_
\par 
\par 12.  Completely characterized by their mass, charge, and spin, they can evaporate through quantum processes.  Primordial ones may have formed in the Big Bang, and they are the ultimate fate of stars whose mass exceeds the Chandrasekhar limit.  FTP, Cygnus

\par  X-1 is believed to be one of what kind of astronomical object whose gravity is so strong even light cannot escape?
\par 
\par Answer: _black hole_
\par 
\par 13.  Abandoning a legal career in 1891 for painting, he worked in the Impressionist style until around the time he acquired Gertrude Stein as a patron.  Considered alongside Picasso as the foremost painter of his time, he continued experimenting with vivi

\par d, non-natural colors of Fauvism even after contemporaries had moved on to Cubism.  FTP, name this French painter and graphic designer who late in his career made high art out of brightly colored paper cut-outs.
\par 
\par Answer: Henri _Matisse_
\par 
\par 14.  In 1998 she\rquote ll turn 39, and is scheduled for some major plastic surgery to reduce her br
east and hip measurements and enlarge her waist, which may appease those who criticize her projected measurements of 38-18-34 as unrealistic.  Still, her shape an
\par d her perpetually tip-toed stance haven\rquote t stopped her from working as a veterinarian, astrona
ut, and firefighter, nor have they scared away her recently introduced disabled friend Becky.  These are all just steps in the life of, FTP, what best-selling dol
\par l of all time, manufactured by Mattel?
\par 
\par Answer: Barbie
\par 
\par 15.  Medieval thinkers believed that temperament was determined by the relative abundance of blood, phlegm, and yellow and black bile.  The collective name given to those substances is today used to refer to the fluid which fills the eyeball, both atreous

\par  and vitreous.  FTP give this term which as a verb can also mean to indulge, and as a noun also means something that is funny.
\par 
\par Answer: _humor_
\par 
\par 16.  After the U.S. military rejected him for being too short, he joined the Royal Canadian Air Force, but World War I ended before he could fight.  He won Pulitzer prizes in 1962 for _The Reivers_ and in 1954 for _A Fable_, but he is better remembered fo

\par r early works like _Sartoris_, in which he introduced Yoknapatawpha County.  FTP, name this author of _Light in August_, _Absalom, Absalom!_ and _The Sound and the Fury_.
\par 
\par Answer: William _Faulkner_
\par 
\par 17.  Her less famous works include _Male and Female_, _Culture and Commitment_, and the autobiography _Blackberry Winter_.  _Aspects of the Present_ is a compilation of Redbook articles written in the 1970\rquote 
s by this student of Frank Boas and Ruth Benedict
\par .  FTP, name this eventual Columbia professor who set off at age twenty-four to study adolescent girls in a noncompetitive, permissive culture, and who published her results in the classic _Coming of Age in Samoa_.
\par 
\par Answer: Margaret _Mead_
\par 
\par 18.  Shortly before Watson and Crick deduced the double helix structure of DNA, this chemist generated excitement with his incorrect three-stranded model.  He also promoted megadoses of vitamin C as a virtual cure-all, but his serious research on hybrid c

\par hemical bonds won him the Nobel Prize in 1954.  FTP, name this scientist and anti-nuclear activist who also won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1962.
\par 
\par Answer: Linus _Pauling_
\par 
\par 19.  Formed in 1992, their first success was the single _When You Gonna Learn_, released on London\rquote 
s Acid Jazz label.  The didgeridoo stylings of Wallis Buchannan were featured in tracks on their debut album _Emergency on Planet Earth_ and follow-up _Retu
\par rn of the Space Cowboy_.  FTP, name this British band fronted by big hat guy Jason Kay whose latest hits, from the _Traveling without Moving_ album, include _Cosmic Girl_ and _Virtual Insanity_.
\par 
\par Answer: _Jamiroquai_
\par 
\par 20.  Responsible for regulating carriers engaged in transportation between states, this first U.S. regulatory agency was established in response to alleged malpracices in the railroad industry.  Since then, its jurisdiction has expanded to bus lines, frei

\par ght forwarders, express agencies, and trucking.  FTP, name this agency, which lost some of its authority when the trucking industry was deregulated during the Reagan administration.
\par 
\par Answer: _I_nterstate _C_ommerce _C_ommission
\par 
\par EX.  The first two novels by this Montreal-born, Chicago-raised writer were _Dangling Man_ and _The Victim_. He won acclaim with the novella _Seize the Day_ and _The Adventures of Augie March_, and later turned to weighty philosophical themes in works lik

\par e _Henderson the Rain King_ and _Mr. Sammler\rquote s Planet_.  FTP, name this author, whose other works include _Herzog_ and _Humboldt\rquote s Gift_.
\par 
\par Answer: Saul _Bellow_
\par 
\par   
\par Boni: 
\par 
\par 1.  FTP each, identify these Hindu texts.
\par 1. A part of the Vedic writings, composed from about 600 to 300 B.C., they argue that the individual self, Atman, is also the universal self, Brahman, but that yoga is necessary to effect their union.
\par Answer: _Upanishads_
\par 2. Eight times as long as the Iliad and the Odyssey put together, this sprawling epic poem compiled over several hundred years concerns the succession struggle between the Kauravas and the Pandavas, and is an encyclopedia of Hindu thought.
\par Answer: _Mahabharata_
\par 3. An eighteen-part discussion between Krishna, an avatar of Vishnu, and Arjuna, a warrior about to enter battle, it covers another facet of the story told in the Mahabharata, and expresses Hindu beliefs about the meaning of life.
\par Answer: _Bhagavadgita_
\par 
\par 2.  Answer the following questions about Spanish rulers for the stated number of points.
\par 1. 5 points: Her marriage to Ferdinand II in 1469 led to the permanent union of the two great kingdoms of Spain.
\par Answer: _Isabella_ I
\par 2. 10 points: This grandson of Ferdinand and Isabella became king of Spain in 1516 and Holy Roman Emperor in 1519.
\par Answer: _Charles V_ (also _Charles I of Spain_)
\par 3. 15 points: This mother of Charles V inherited the throne of Castile upon the death of Isabella, but her insanity forced her to live a life of seclusion.
\par Answer: _Joanna_ the Mad or _Juana_ la loca
\par 
\par 3.  Identify the phylum to which each of the following types of organisms belong, FTP each.
\par 1. Slugs, clams, and garden snails.
\par Answer: _Mollusca_
\par 2. Amoebas
\par Answer: _Rhizopoda_
\par 3. Spiders and insects
\par Answer: _Arthropoda_
\par 
\par 4.  Name these ancient Roman writers FTP each.
\par 1. Revered for his love elegies, this eventual exile\rquote s greatest work was the _Metamorphoses_.
\par Answer: _Ovid_
\par 2. As an orator, he dispatched the Sicilian governor Verres and almost singlehandedly foiled the conspiracy of Catiline. Attacking Mark Antony in the Phillipic orations, he was betrayed and executed by the second triumvirate.
\par Answer: _Cicero_
\par 3. Known for his _Natural History_, which was regarded as a scientific text in the middle ages, he was killed by the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius.
\par Answer: _Pliny_ the Elder
\par 
\par 5.  FTP each, answer these questions about optics.
\par 1. Huygens\rquote  principle, that every point on a wavefront is the source of a new spherical wavefront, predicts this phenomenon where a wave passing through a slot will spread out on the other side.
\par Answer: diffraction
\par 2. This is the term for the change in direction of a ray of light when it passes from one medium to another.
\par Answer: refraction
\par 3. This law states that the product of the index of refraction with the sine of the angle between a light ray and the normal to a surface it strikes remains constant as the light ray crosses the surface.
\par Answer: _Snell_\rquote s Law
\par 
\par 6.  FTP each, name these rivers.
\par 1. After rising in the Lesotho highlands, it travels west across the South African veld, where it is tapped for irrigation and power. It then defines the southern limit of the Kalahari and bisects the southern Namib before draining into the Atlantic at Al

\par exander Bay.
\par Answer: Orange
\par 2.  Efforts to regulate the flow of this 405 mile-long river which empties into the Adriatic have continued since pre-Roman times. Turin, Venice, and Padua lie along it.
\par Answer: Po
\par 3.  The longest river of Europe, it flows 2,193 miles before emptying into the Caspian Sea. Its major tributaries are the Oka and Kama.
\par Answer: Volga
\par 
\par 7.  FTP each, name these cheesy science fiction classics.
\par 1. This 1968 film takes place in the 41st century, where peace reigns on earth and sex has been eliminated. Jane Fonda plays the title character, who tracks down interplanetary criminal Duran Duran in her fur-lined spaceship.
\par Answer: Barbarella
\par 2. The last special-effects spectacular of the pre-Star Wars era, this 1976 film follows a Sandman as he searches for Sanctuary outside his domed city with his girlfriend Jessica 6.
\par Answer: _Logan\rquote s Run_
\par 3. This 1981 John Carpenter film about Snake Plisskin, a war hero turned criminal turned Presidential rescuer, recently spawned a sequel set in Los Angeles.
\par Answer: _Escape from New York_
\par 
\par 8.  FTP each identify these chemical elements.
\par 1. This alkaline earth metal is used in red signal flares.  Its isotope with mass number 90 is considered the most dangerous component of radioactive fallout.
\par Answer: strontium
\par 2. Also called Wolfram, from which name derives its chemical symbol, it has the highest melting point and lowest thermal expansion coefficient of any metal.
\par Answer: tungsten
\par 3. Discovered by Klaproth in 1789, this radioactive element has atomic number 92.
\par Answer: uranium
\par 
\par 9.  FTP each, identify these Latin American tough guys.
\par 1. This Argentine doctor and revolutionary was killed by Bolivian peasants in 1967. 
\par Answer: Ernesto Che _Guevara_
\par 2. This hero of the descamisados became president of Argentina in 1946, and ruled with the help of his celebrated wife.
\par Answer: Juan _Peron_
\par 3. This former Panamanian dictator and arch-enemy of George Bush is currently in an American prison.
\par Answer: Manuel _Noriega_
\par 
\par 10.  Identify these characters from _Alice in Wonderland_ FTP each.
\par 1. This character\rquote s name is a reference to the nervous disease caused by mercury used in the manufacture of felt in Lewis Caroll\rquote s time.  He asks the answerless riddle \ldblquote why is a raven like a writing desk?\rdblquote  
\par Answer: _Mad Hatter_
\par 2. At the mad tea party, he offers Alice wine when there is none, and justifies putting butter in the Hatter\rquote s watch by saying, \ldblquote It was the best butter.\rdblquote 
\par Answer: _March Hare_
\par 3. This weeping, hard-shelled punster shows Alice how to dance the Lobster Quadrille.
\par Answer: _Mock Turtle_.
\par 
\par 11.  Name these Nobel laureate biologists FTP each.
\par 1. This UCSF professor won the most recent Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his pioneering research into the disease-causing agents known as prions.
\par Answer: Stanley _Prusiner_
\par 2. She won the 1983 prize for her discovery of transposons, or \ldblquote jumping genes\rdblquote , in her research on corn genetics.
\par Answer: Barbara _McClintock_
\par 3. The work of this 1958 winner, a Wisconsin professor at the time, on recombinant bacterial genetics laid the foundation for the science of genetic engineering.
\par Answer: Joshua _Lederberg_ 
\par 
\par 12.  Name these economists FTP each.
\par 1. The laissez-faire doctrine of this 19th century Englishman was exemplified by his Iron Law of Wages, which stated that all attempts to improve the real wages of workers were futile.
\par Answer: David _Ricardo_
\par 2. This Swede believed that poverty tended to be self-reinforcing.  He wrote on population control and third world development, and his treatise on America\rquote s racial problems was condensed by Arnold Rose as _The Negro in America_.
\par Answer: Gunnar _Myrdal_
\par 3. This conservative Chicago economist was a champion of monetarism, and advocated that a the welfare bureaucracy should be replaced by a negative income tax funneling money to the poor.
\par Answer: Milton _Friedman_
\par 
\par 13.  For five points apiece, name the inaugural season WNBA and ABL league leaders in each of the following statistical categories.
\par 1. Points 
\par Answer: Cynthia _Cooper_ and Carolyn _Jones_
\par 2. Assists
\par Answer: Teresa _Weatherspoon_ and Dawn _Staley_
\par 3. Rebounds 
\par Answer: Lisa _Leslie_ and Natalie _Williams_
\par 
\par 14.  FTP each, name these poets from a list of works on a 10-5 basis.
\par 1. 10 points: _To A Mouse_, _A Red, Red Rose_
\par 5 points:  _Scots, Wha Hae_, _Auld Lang Syne_
\par Answer: Robert _Burns_
\par 2. 10 points: _The Excursion_, _The Prelude_
\par 5 points: _Resolution and Independence_, _Lines Composed a Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey_
\par Answer: William _Wordsworth_
\par 3. 10 points: _Sonnet of the Vowels_, _The Drunken Boat_
\par 5 points: _A Season in Hell_
\par Answer: Arthur _Rimbaud_
\par 
\par 15.  Identify these vice presidents of the United States for fifteen points each.
\par 1. The only veep not sworn in on U.S. soil, he died after only a month in office.
\par Answer: Rufus de Vane _King_
\par 2. This vice president of Grover Cleveland was the grandfather of a later two-time presidential candidate.
\par Answer: Adlai _Stevenson_
\par 
\par 16.  FTP each, name these Impressionists.
\par 1. An independently wealthy man about town, he was an artistic rebel whose paintings like _The Absinthe Drinker_ were sometimes rejected by the Salon exhibition. He shocked French society with the eroticism of works such as _Luncheon on the Grass_ and _Ol

\par ympia_.
\par Answer: Edouard _Manet_
\par 2. The archetypal Impressionist, his painting _Impression: Sunrise_ gave the movement its name.  Other works by him include _Rouen Cathedral_ and a series of paintings of water-lilies.
\par Answer: Claude _Monet_
\par 3. Starting out as a painter in 1854 in a porcelain factory in Paris, his paintings of pretty children, flowers, beautiful scenes, and attractive women are perennial favorites.  
\par Answer: Pierre-Auguste _Renoir_
\par 
\par 17.  For five points each, give the last names (at birth) of these pop stars.
\par 1. Brandy 
\par Answer: _Norwood_
\par 2. Jewel
\par Answer: _Kilcher_
\par 3. Prince
\par Answer: _Nelson_
\par 4. Fiona Apple
\par Answer: _Maggart_
\par 5. Bjork
\par Answer: _Gudmunsdottir_
\par 6. Madonna
\par Answer: _Ciccone_
\par 
\par 18.  Name these plays FTP each.
\par 1. Partly narrated by Tom Wingfield, this Tennessee Williams play focuses on his nostalgic mother and his crippled sister who has withdrawn into a fantasy world involving her glass animals.
\par Answer: _The Glass Menagerie_
\par 2. Subtitled _A Comedy and a Philosophy_, this Shaw play centers on the romance of John Tanner and Ann Whitefield, and includes the famous _Don Juan in Hell_ scene.
\par Answer: _Man and Superman_
\par 3. This Thornton Wilder play was a revision of one of his earlier plays, _The Merchant of Yonkers_, and later was adapted into the musical _Hello Dolly!_
\par Answer: The _Matchmaker_
\par 
\par 19.  Answer the following questions about the Franco-Prussian War for fifteen points each.
\par 1. A crushing Prussian victory led to the surrender of Napoleon III at this 1870 battle.
\par Answer: _Sedan_
\par 2. Following the war, this king of Prussia was proclaimed German emperor at Versailles.
\par Answer: _Wilhelm I_
\par 
\par 20.  For fifteen points each, name these writers.
\par 1. This South African playwright told the stories of oppressed blacks in the plays _Blood Knot_ and _Master Harold and the Boys_, and the novel _Tsotsi_.
\par Answer: Athol _Fugard_
\par 2. This Nobel Laureate from Iceland wrote _Under the Holy Mountain_, _The Great Weaver from Kashmir_, and _World Light_.
\par Answer: Halldor _Laxness_
\par }\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f5\fs24 
\par }}