{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff7\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times;}
{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Geneva;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f5 \snext15 Default;}{\*\cs16 \additive \f7\fs18 Default SS;}{
\s17\qc\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \b\f4\fs28 \sbasedon15 \snext17 header;}{\s18\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4 \sbasedon15 \snext18 Body;}{\s19\qc\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \i\f4 \sbasedon15 \snext19 footer;}{
\s20\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20 \sbasedon15 \snext20 Footnote;}{\*\cs21 \additive \up6 Footnote Index;}}{\info{\author The Weiner Family}{\operator The Weiner Family}{\creatim\yr1999\mo8\dy15\hr1\min41}
{\revtim\yr1999\mo8\dy15\hr1\min43}{\version2}{\edmins2}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords2681}{\nofchars15286}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws18772}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale90\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd 
\sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f5\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f5\fs24 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f5 {1997 Cavalier Classic
\par Final Round
\par 
\par 
\par Tossups:
\par 
\par 1.  According to one legend, he was blinded by Oenopion (oh-NAH-pee-AHN), the king of Chios, to prevent him from marrying Oenopion\rquote 
s daughter.  He was also said to have died after being stung by a scorpion while pursuing Artemis.  FTP, identify this figur
\par e from Greek myth, who also chased the Pleiades, and who appears in the sky, near the Scorpion and the Pleiades, as the constellation of the hunter.
\par 
\par Answer: Orion
\par 
\par 2.  As a colonel in charge of volunteers in 1861, he led a brigade at Bull Run, and captured Roanoke Island in February of 1862.  In 1863 he successfully defended Knoxville, and led a corps under Grant in the battle of the Wilderness and Cold Harbor.  FTP

\par , identify this general, whose corps suffered heavy losses at Antietam, but who still accepted command of the army after McClellan was dismissed, only to be defeated by Lee at Fredericksburg, and who is best remembered for lending his name to a style of f

\par acial hair.
\par 
\par Answer: Ambrose _Burnside_
\par 
\par 3.  It was first proposed by Johann Becher in 1669, who gave it a name literally meaning \'d2fat earth.\'d3
  In the eighteenth century, Georg Stahl gave it a new name, and theorized that metals contain it and calx, a powdery residue.  FTP, identify this theoret
\par ical substance, whose existence was disproved by Lavoisier, and which was thought to be a component of all flammable objects that was released when they were burned.
\par 
\par Answer: phlogiston
\par 
\par 4.  Their lesser known members were Georges Auric, Louis Durey, and Germaine Tailleferre (tie-fair).  Although they rarely met and had different styles, a music critic grouped them together because of their common disdain for Romanticism and use of popula

\par r music, like their mentor Erik Satie.  FTP, identify this group of French composers, which also included Arthur Honneger, Darius Milhaud (mee-oh), and Francis Poulenc, and which you should be able to figure out if you\rquote 
ve been counting the number of names
\par  given in this question.
\par 
\par Answer: _Les Six_ or the _six_
\par 
\par 5.  In November, 1602, Sebastian Viscaino landed at Point Loma, and changed the name of the bay from San Miguel to its current name.  The original southern terminus of the Santa Fe railroad, Father Junipero Serra founded California\rquote 
s first mission there i
\par n 1769.  FTP, identify this city, which is well known for Coronado Island, Balboa Park, and whose major league teams include the Chargers and Padres.
\par 
\par Answer: _San Diego_
\par 
\par 6.  Although the central character of this novel is proposed to by Caspar Goodwood and Lord Warburton, she chooses to marry Gilbert Osmond, a dilletante who lives in Italy with his daughter Pansy.  After her marriage, she discovers that Madame Merle, Osmo

\par nd\rquote s mistress, arranged their marriage so that he could get her money.  FTP, identify this novel, published in 1881, which tells the story of Isabel Archer, and which is considered the greatest work of Henry James.
\par 
\par Answer: The _Portrait of a Lady_
\par 
\par 7.  They formed in Birmingham in 1968 as a blues band named \'d2Earth.\'d3
  Featuring Bill Ward on drums and Tony Iommi and Geezer Butler on guitars, they were best known for their distinctive lead singer, who went on to a solo career in heavy metal.  FTP, name
\par  this band, whose albums include _Master of Reality_ and _Paranoid_, famed for the exploits of lead singer Ozzy Osbourne.
\par 
\par Answer: _Black Sabbath_
\par  
\par 8.  His inventions included an air crib and a box used to observe stimulus-response behavior in animals.  The author of _Particulars of My Life_ and _A Matter of Consequence_, he argued that free will does not really exist, and attempted to apply his beli

\par efs that man is entirely under the control of external influences to create an ideal society.  FTP, name this author of _Beyond Freedom and Dignity_, a leading American behaviorist who is best remembered for _Walden Two_.
\par 
\par Answer: Burrhus Frederic _Skinner_
\par 
\par 9.  During the administration of Robert Peel, he became junior lord of the treasury and later undersecretary for the colonies.  After serving as chancellor of the exchequer from 1852 to 1855, he became the leader of the Liberal Party in 1867, and would se

\par rve as Prime Minister four times between 1868 and 1894.  FTP, name this British statesman, known as the \'d2Grand Old Man,\'d3 whose Home Rule bills for Ireland were defeated, and whose chief rival was the Tory Benjamin Disraeli.
\par 
\par Answer: William _Gladstone_
\par 
\par 10.  In order to get control of his addiction to opium, he put himself into the care of Dr. James Gillman in 1816, and spent the last eighteen years of his life living with him.  Although he married Sara Fricker in 1794, the love of his life was Sara Hutc

\par hinson, who later became William Wordsworth\rquote s sister-in-law.  FTP, identify this author of _Biographia Literaria_, \'d2Frost at Midnight,\'d3 and \'d2Christabel,\'d3 a poet who is best remembered for \'d2Kubla Khan\'d3 and \'d2
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.\'d3
\par 
\par Answer: Samuel Taylor _Coleridge_
\par 
\par 11.  Its positive ion is the most abundant cation in plant tissues, and is absorbed through the roots for protein synthesis.  Obtained from electrolysis from seawater and found in minerals like sylvite and kainite, it forms an orange colored oxide which i

\par ncludes the two minus oxygen ion.  FTP, identify this element of group 1, whose ions pair with sodium in producing changes of electrical potential in nerve cells, whose atomic number is 19 and whose symbol is K.
\par 
\par Answer: potassium
\par 
\par 12.  He was born around 519 B.C., the son of Atossa and Darius.  After he dreamt that the gods wanted him to declare war, he gathered an army and fleet, and made it as far as Athens before he was conclusively defeated at the battle of Salamis.  FTP, name 

\par this ruler, who built a bridge out of boats to cross the Hellespont during the Persian Wars.
\par 
\par Answer: _Xerxes_ I 
\par 
\par 13.  In his play _The Memorandum_, the government introduces an artificial language, Ptydepe (puh-TEE-dep), which no one is able to master the use of.  After 1968\rquote 
s _The Increased Difficulty of Concentration_, his plays were no longer published in his hom
\par e country, as he had become a leader of Charter 77, a civil rights group.  FTP, name this author of _The Garden Party_, who is better known for his political career as the President of the Czech Republic.
\par 
\par Answer: Vaclav _Havel_
\par 
\par 14.  An AIDS patient in _Parting Glances_.  Map to the Stars Eddie in _Escape from L.A._.  A guy on a bowling team in the upcoming _The Big Lebowski_.  Garland Greene in _Con Air_.  FTP, identify the actor who has had all of these roles, as well as those 

\par of the director in _Living in Oblivion_, a kidnapper in _Fargo_, and Mr. Pink in _Reservoir Dogs_.
\par 
\par Answer: Steve _Buscemi_
\par 
\par 15.  His first important work was done with Warburg in Berlin, were he imporved a technique for studying metabolic reactions with thin tissue samples to show how the ornithine cycle works in the liver.  In 1933, he escaped Germany and fled to England, whe

\par re he did work which led to his winning the Nobel Prize in 1953, along with Fritz Lipmann.  FTP, name this biochemist, who is most famous for his work on the tricarboxylic acid or citric acid cycle, which is also named for him.
\par 
\par Answer: Hans _Krebs_
\par 
\par 16.  In July of 1953, he led an unsuccessful uprising and was sentenced to 15 years in prison, but was released under an amnesty and fled to the United States.  After returning to his country in 1956, he was betrayed and fled into the Sierra Maestra, from

\par  which he led a guerrila campaign that grew into full-scale war by December, 1958.  FTP, name this revolutionary leader, who became prime minister in 1959 after Bautista left the country, and has ruled ever since as the Communist leader of Cuba.
\par 
\par Answer: Fidel _Castro_
\par 
\par 17.  In its first publication, it was an unsigned collection of twelve untitled poems, with a preface declaring the author's poetic credo: that "the United States themselves are essentially the greatest poem.\'d3
  Continually revised until the author's death
\par  in 1892, it includes \'d2The Sleepers,\'d3 \'d2Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking,\'d3 and the "Song of Myself".  FTP, name this collection of poems written by Walt Whitman.
\par 
\par Answer: _Leaves of Grass_
\par 
\par 18.  Traditionally, it was held on the Brocken, the highest point in the Harz Mountains.  It is named for an English missionary nun who helped Saint Boniface convert the Germans, and who was later considered a protectress against magic, even though she wa

\par s associated with pagan rites.  FTP, identify this term for a witches\rquote  sabbath held the night before May 1, which is named for Saint Walpurga.
\par 
\par Answer: _Walpurgis Night_ or _Walpurgisnacht_
\par 
\par 19.  Last year, they drafted Cedric Henderson, Derek Anderson, and Brevin Knight.  In the off-season, they acquired Henry James and Wesley Person, and they lost three starters to free agency, Mark West, Bobby Phills, and Chris Mills.  FTP, identify this C

\par entral Division team, which traded away its other two starters when it sent Tyrone Hill and Terrell Brandon to Milwaukee in order to get Shawn Kemp.
\par 
\par Answer: the Cleveland _Cavaliers_
\par 
\par 20.  After studying at the Ecole Polytechnique in Paris, he became an assistant professor of analysis there.  Although he defined kinetic energy as being equal to one half of the mass times the square of the velocity, and despite the fact that he introduc

\par ed the term \'d2work,\'d3 he is better known for the force he discovered.  FTP, name this French physicist, who, in 1835, discovered an inertial force which acts on rotating surfaces at ri
ght angles to their motion, causing them to curve, which explains the mov
\par ement of ocean currents near the equator.
\par 
\par Answer: Gaspard de _Coriolis_
\par 
\par EX.  Her first book, co-written with Ogden Coleman, was 1897\rquote s _The Decoration of Houses_.  She published th
e short story collection _The Great Inclination_ two years later, and went on to write such novels as _The Valley of Decision_, _The Fruit of the T
\par ree_, and _The Custom of the Country_.  FTP, name this author, best known for _The House of Mirth_, _The Age of Innocence_, and _Ethan Frome_.
\par 
\par Answer: Edith _Wharton_
\par 
\par 
\par Boni:
\par 
\par 
\par 1.  Answer the following questions about a novella for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  15 points:  Published in 1902 in _Youth: A Narrative, With Two other Stories_, its narrator tells the story to four friends as they wait for the tide to change on a ship on the Thames river.
\par Answer: _Heart of Darkness_
\par 2.  5 points:  Name the author of _Heart of Darkness_.
\par Answer: Joseph _Conrad_
\par 3.  10 points:  This ivory dealer is the central figure of _Heart of Darkness_.  His dying words are \'d2The horror!  The horror!\'d3
\par Answer: Mister _Kurtz_
\par 
\par 2.  Identify the directors of the following films from the 1940s, for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5 points: _Suspicion_ and _Rebecca_
\par Answer: Alfred _Hitchcock_
\par 2.  10 points:  _The Grapes of Wrath_ and _How Green Was My Valley_
\par Answer: John _Ford_
\par 3.  15 points:  _Sergeant York_ and _His Girl Friday_
\par Answer: Howard _Hawks_
\par 
\par 3.  Identify the president, 30-20-10.
\par 1.  A post office clerk when the Civil War broke out, he volunteered as a private, and would be the last Civil War veteran to serve as President.
\par 2.  Elected to Congress in 1876, he was a Republican floor leader, and authored the record-high tariff of 1890 before losing his seat that year.
\par 3.  After losing his Congressional seat, Marcus Hanna managed him to the governorship of Ohio and funded his successful Presidential run in 1896.
\par Answer: William _McKinley_
\par 
\par 4.  Identify the nineteenth century philosophers from works for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5 points:  This English author of _On Liberty_ is best known for his _Utilitarianism_.
\par Answer: John Stuart _Mill_
\par 2.  10 points:  This Danish philosopher is best known for early existentialist works like _Fear and Trembling_ and _Either/Or_.
\par Answer: Soren _Kierkegaard_
\par 3.  15 points:  This German pessimist is best known for his _The World as Will and Representation_.
\par Answer: Arthur _Schopenhauer_
\par 
\par 5.  Answer the following questions about the planet Pluto, for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5 points:  Name Pluto\rquote s only moon.
\par Answer: Charon
\par 2.  10 points:  This American astronomer discovered Pluto in 1930.
\par Answer: Clyde _Tombaugh_
\par 3.  15 points:  In 1915, this American astronomer postulated the existence of a ninth planet, based on observed irregulaties in the orbits of Uranus and Neptune.
\par Answer: Percival _Lowell_
\par 
\par 6.  Identify the capitals of the following countries, for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5 points: Finland
\par Answer: Helsinki
\par 2.  10 points: Estonia
\par Answer: Talinn
\par 3.  15 points: Kazakhstan
\par Answer: Almaty (do not accept \'d2Alma-ata\'d3)
\par 
\par 7.  Answer the following questions about an American novelist FTP each.
\par 1.  A student of the anthropologist Franz Boas, her works include _Mules and Men_ and _Moses: Man of the Mountain_.
\par Answer: Zora Neale _Hurston_
\par 2.  Hurston\rquote s best known work is this novel about Janie Crawford.
\par Answer: _Their Eyes Were Watching God_
\par 3.  This contemporary novelist rediscovered Hurston\rquote s grave in the 1970s, and brought Hurston into prominence by editing a collection of her writings.
\par Answer: Alice _Walker_
\par 
\par 8.  Given a 1997 Heisman Trophy Candidate, name his school for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5 points: Peyton Manning
\par Answer: _Tennessee_
\par 2.  10 points: Charles Woodson
\par Answer: _Michigan_
\par 3.  15 points: Ryan Leaf
\par Answer: _Washington State_
\par 
\par 9.  Identify the endocrine glands from their functions FTP each.
\par 1.  Found just above the kidneys, they help to regulate blood pressure.  Their inner portions are known as the medulla.
\par Answer: the _adrenal_ glands
\par 2.  Located in the neck, it regulates growth and the intake of calcium by bones.
\par Answer: the _thyroid_
\par 3.  This gland produces hormones that control other glands as well as growth hormone.
\par Answer: the _pituitary_
\par 
\par 10.  Identify the World War II battles FTP each.
\par 1.  The U.S. won this battle of May 1942, which was the first naval battle entirely fought from planes launched from aircraft carriers.
\par Answer: the Battle of the _Coral Sea_
\par 2.  The Germans made it to southern Belgium, but were forced to withdraw by January in this battle, the last major German offensive.
\par Answer: the Battle of the _Bulge_
\par 3.  Fought from April 1 to June 21, 1945, the American capture of this strategic island was the last major battle of the war in the Pacific.
\par Answer: the Battle of _Okinawa_
\par 
\par 11.  Name the Canterbury tale from the plot summary, for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  10 points: Alison cuckolds her carpenter husband by stealing away with the young scholar Nicholas, but Nicholas receives an unfortunate burn from his rival Absolon.
\par Answer:  The _Miller_\rquote s Tale
\par 2.  5 points: A young Arthurian knight learns that the thing that women most desire is sovereignty over men.
\par Answer:  The _Wife of Bath_\rquote s Tale
\par 3.  15 points: Three young set out to slay Death and wind up dead.
\par Answer:  The _Pardoner_\rquote s Tale
\par 
\par 12.  Name these figures from early French history FTP each.
\par 1.  This chief of the Franks unified the country and established the Merovingian dynasty in 486.
\par Answer: _Clovis_ I
\par 2.  He repeled the Saracens from France with his victory at the battle of Tours in 732.
\par Answer: _Charles_ Martel
\par 3.  The son of Charles Martel, he overthrew the last of the Merovingians in 751 and made himself king.
\par Answer: _Pepin_ the Short
\par 
\par 13.  Identify these early hominids FTP each.
\par 1.  The first known member of our genus, it emerged roughly 2.2 million years ago.
\par Answer: _Homo habilis_
\par 2.  Java Man and Peking Man were examples of this species, which existed virtually unchanged for one and a half million years.
\par Answer: _Homo erectus_
\par 3.  These genus came before ours; its species include ramidus and afarensis.
\par Answer: Australopithecus  
\par 
\par 14.  Identify the English painters from works, for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5 points: _Blue Boy_
\par Answer: Thomas _Gainsborough_
\par 2.  10 points: _The Hay Wain_
\par Answer: John _Constable_
\par 3.  15 points: _Rain, Steam, and Speed_
\par Answer: Joseph M. W. _Turner_
\par 
\par 15.  Identify the following Indian empires for fifteen points each.
\par 1.  The third emperor of this dynasty, Asoka, made Buddhism the state religion.  Under this empire, most of India was united for the first time.
\par Answer: the _Mauryan_ empire
\par 2.  This dynasty emerged in the Ganges River valley around 320 A.D.  It is generally considered the golden age of north Indian culture.
\par Answer: the _Gupta_ empire
\par 
\par 16.  Identify the authors of the following classics of magic realism on a 15-10 basis.
\par 1.  15 points: _The Book of Laughter and Forgetting_
\par 10 points: _The Unbearable Lightness of Being_
\par Answer: Milan _Kundera_
\par 2.  15 points: _Cosmicomics_
\par 10 points: _If on a Winter\rquote s Night a Traveller_
\par Answer: Italo _Calvino_
\par 
\par 17.  Identify the following Grammy Award winners FTP each.
\par 1.  She won back to back best record Grammy Awards for \'d2The First Time I Ever Saw Your Face\'d3 and \'d2Killing Me Softly with His Song.\'d3
\par Answer: Roberta _Flack_
\par 2.  He won best album Grammies for \'d2Fulfullingness\rquote  First Finale,\'d3 \'d2Innervisions,\'d3 and \'d2Songs in the Key of Life.\'d3
\par Answer: Stevie _Wonder_
\par 3.  Her \'d2What\rquote s Love Got to Do With It\'d3 was the best record of 1984.
\par Answer: Tina _Turner_
\par 
\par 18.  Identify the twentieth century mathematicians, for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5 points:  Known for his machine and his test, this Englishman showed that there is no one infallible way of proving any mathematical statement true or false.
\par Answer: Alan _Turing_
\par 2.  10 points: In 1931, he proposed his incompleteness theorem, stating that any formal system of mathematics must be incomplete or inconsistent.
\par Answer: Kurt _Godel_ (\'d2girdle\'d3)
\par 3.  15 points: This Princeton mathematician proved Fermat\rquote s Last Theorem in 1995.
\par Answer: Andrew _Wiles_ 
\par 
\par 19.  Identify these early Christian figures for fifteen points each.
\par 1.  This Italian founded his monastery at Monte Cassino around 529.  The order named for him was the first Western monastic order.
\par Answer: Benedict
\par 2.  This British monk was excommunicated in 418.  He denied original sin and claimed that man could achieve grace through good works.
\par Answer: Pelagius
\par 
\par 20.  Identify the following works by F. Scott Fitzgerald for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5 points:  This novel about a Hollywood producer was unfinished when Fitzgerald died in 1940.
\par Answer: The _Last Tycoon_
\par 2.  10 points:  Fitzgerald\rquote s fourth novel, it tells the story of Dick Diver.
\par Answer: _Tender is the Night_
\par 3.  15 points:  Published in 1922, the protagonist of this novel is Anthony Patch, an alcoholic who is waiting for his grandfather to die so he can spend his inheritance.
\par Answer: The _Beautiful and Damned_
\par }\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f5\fs24 
\par }}