{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar 
\f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title Les Enfants Terribles}{\author R. Robert Hentzel}{\operator R. Robert Hentzel}{\creatim\yr1997\mo4\dy11\hr2\min35}{\revtim\yr1997\mo4\dy23\hr19\min35}{\version9}{\edmins43}
{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2575}{\nofchars14679}{\*\company  }{\vern57443}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \widctlpar\tx720 
\f4\fs20 {\b Les Enfants Terribles
\par Academic Quiz Bowl Tournament
\par Packet #5 by Iowa State University
\par 18-19 April 1997
\par 
\par Toss-Ups}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 1. His first salon picture was drawn from medieval literature but featured Virgil and so might have been acceptable except for its imaginative, colorful unclassical style which his teacher, Gu\'e9
rin, was the first to criticize.  He became interested in Greek independence and the restoration of French democracy.  FTP, name the painter of {\i The Massacre at Chios}, {\i Greece on the Ruins of Missolonghi}, and {\i Liberty Leading the People}.

\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 
\par Answer:\tab Ferdinand-Victor-Eug\'e8ne {\ul Delacroix}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 2. He led the Confederate delegation to the Hampton Roads Conference, which tried to head off the impending Civil War.  After the war, he wrote \ldblquote A Constitutional View of the Late War Between the States\rdblquote 
, in which he argued for the legality of secession.  FTP, name this politician, who represents Georgia in Statuary Hall, the vice-president of the Confederate States of America.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 
\par Answer:\tab Alexander Hamilton {\ul Stephens}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 
3. This scale is based on the work of the Greek astronomer Hipparchus who qualitatively divided the visible stars into six classes.  It is now defined as a logarithmic scale with a base of about 2.5 and the sun, moon, and other planets have been included.
  FTP, what is this scale which assigns the faintest things visible with naked eye a 6 and the sun a whopping -27?
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 
\par Answer:\tab apparent {\ul magnitude}
\par Wrong:\tab absolute magnitude
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
4. Former CIA director Allen Dulles, former presidential aide John McCloy, Senator Richard Russell of Georgia, Senator John Cooper of Kentucky, Representative Hale Boggs of Louisiana, Representative Gerald Ford of Michigan, and, of course, the Chief Justi
ce of the Supreme Court; these men met for 10 months, took testimony from 522 witnesses, and rejected all theories involving multiple gunmen or the grassy knoll.  FTP, identify this commission which investigated the assassination of President Kennedy.

\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:  {\ul Warren} Commission 
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 5.  \ldblquote The search for the yellow vial\rdblquote 
 lived up to expectations in 1990 when University of Arizona and Max Planck Institute researchers confirmed that macroscopic yields did, as theory predicted, appear yellow.  FTP, name this compound of molecular weight 7
20, named for an American architect and engineer.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul buckminsterfullerene} ({\ul fullerene}, {\ul buckyball}, {\ul C60})
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
6. Amos Ames, Louisa Ames, and Minnie; Josiah Borden, Emma Borden, and Everett Hills; Joe Silva, Ira Mackel, and Abner Small.  These three groups assist gardener Seth Beckwith in playing the role of the chorus in subsequent parts.  Adam Brant assumes the 
role of Aegisthus while Christine Mannon appears at Klytemnaestra.  FTP, what is this Eugene O\rquote Neill play about Lavinia Mannon in the role of the Greek girl of the title?
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab {\i\ul Mourning Becomes Electra}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 7. He was to rule every 
second year, but his brother refused to yield after his term was done.  Thereupon he fled to Argos where king Adrastus, his brother Amphiaraus, and four others joined him to raise an army.  After many battles, he met his brother in single combat whereupon
 they slew each other.  FTP, name this son of Oedipus and brother of Eteocles whose lust for power engendered the seven against Thebes.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Polyneikes} ({\ul Polynices})
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 8. The name is shared by two American roads.  The first runs through New Mexico and is t
he oldest road in the U.S.  The second followed an old trail north from San Diego for 530 miles connecting Spanish missions together.  Its route is closely followed by the modern U.S. Highway 101.  FTP, what is this name, Spanish for "the Royal Highway?"

\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer: {\i El }{\i\ul Camino Real} [ehl kah-MEE-noh ray-AHL]
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 9. They worked from the "inevitability of gradualism" and believed that new, persistent political pressures were necessary for social reform. Famous members included Clement Attlee, Hubert Bland, Beatrice W
ebb, and George Bernard Shaw.  FTP, what is this English society, founded in 1884, which took its name from a Roman general famed for the delaying tactics he used against the Carthaginians?
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Fabian} Society
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 10. Because her husband\rquote 
s sister-in-law had been unfaithful, her husband Shahriar decided not to trust any wife to be faithful but to kill each of his brides the morning after the wedding.  She managed to put off her execution by beginning a fascinating t
ale which her husband wanted to hear concluded.  FTP, name this woman who had to tell stories for 1,001 nights before her husband relented on the death sentence.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Scheherazade}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 11. He opened one of his books with \ldblquote The Death of Permanence\rdblquote 
 and went on to define a new name for what happens to people who are overwhelmed by change:  Futureshock.  In his next book, he placed the technological revolution as the successor to the agricultural and industrial revolutions in {\i The Third Wave}
.  FTP, name this American sociologist who, with his unsung wife Heidi, influenced many of the ideas of the contemporary Republican party.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab Alvin {\ul Toffler}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 12. From 1704 to 1713 he wrote and published {\i The Review} single handedly, which led him to be known as the father of modern journalism.  He defended William II in {\i The True-born Englishman}, but his 1702 satire The {\i 
Shortest Way with the Dissenters} got him imprisoned at Newgate.  FTP, name this author of {\i Roxana}, {\i A Journal of the Plague Year}, {\i Moll Flanders}, and {\i Robinson Crusoe}.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab Daniel {\ul Defoe}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 13. It was no
t too late for him to seek a newer world with his friends, those souls that toiled and wrought and fought with him, and ever with a frolic welcome took the thunder and the sunshine.  He had learned that it little profited an idle king to mete and dole whi
le matched with an aged wife, so he left Ithaca to his son Telemachus and set out \ldblquote to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield.\rdblquote   FTP, who is this classical hero reinvigorated by Alfred, Lord Tennyson?
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Ulysses}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 14. Some of his title characters in
clude a 14th century Roman tribune, a knight who visits Rome and Venusberg, another knight who finds the holy grail, a Germanic king who is invulnerable except for a small spot on his back, and Hans Sachs, a {\i meistersinger} from N\'fc
rnberg.  FTP, name this German composer of {\i Rienzi}, {\i Tannh\'e4user}, and {\i Siegfried}.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab Richard {\ul Wagner}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 15. When first hatched, they resemble water fleas and have six legs and one eye.  In their second stage of life, they have 12 legs, 3 eyes, and a pair of large feelers.  Later, the
y lose their eyes.  They attach themselves to objects, build a hard lime-like box around themselves, and troll for food by swinging their legs through the water.  FTP, identify this class of shellfish, the bane of sailors everywhere.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 
\par Answer:  {\ul barnacle}s
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 16. Its land was acquired by the Louisiana Purchase, the annexation of Texas, the Oregon Territory treaty, and the Treaty of Guadeloupe Hidalgo, making it the only U.S. state to come from four treaties.  It
\par contains the first U.S. national forest, the Shoshone, the first U.S. national monument, Devil\rquote s Tower, and most of the world's first national park, Yellowstone.  FTP, identify this least populous state with capital
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 at Cheyenne.
\par 
\par Answer:  {\ul Wyoming}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 17. It begins \ldblquote Supposing truth is a woman--what then?\rdblquote  and goes on to discuss the inadequacy of traditional moral concepts, particularly in seeing opposites where there are only degrees.  It bills itself as a 
\ldblquote prelude to philosophy of the future,\rdblquote  where free will and Christianity have been discarded.  FTP, what is this 1886 Friedrich Nietzsche work titled for the two most famous opposites in ethical philosophy?
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab {\i\ul Beyond Good and Evil}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 18. Born in Italy as Rodolfo d'Antonguolla, he came to New York and worked briefly as a gardener before beginning his film career in 1918's "Alimony".  He achieved stardom in 1921 for his roles in "The Four
\par Horsemen of the Apocalypse" and "The Sheik".  FTP, identify this silent movie heartthrob who died an untimely death at age 31 in 1926.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 
\par Answer:\tab Rudolph \ldblquote Rudy\rdblquote  {\ul Valentino}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 19. In electrostatics, it may be used to infer that the internal electric field of a conductor will vanish and that any net charge must reside on the surface.  One can also derive Coulomb\rquote 
s law from it by noting that the surface area of an enclosing sphere expands as one over r squared.  FTP, name this law which states that the net field flux is equal to the enclosed electric charge.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Gauss}\rquote  Law
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 20. One wanted a reduction in taxes due from Asia.  The second wanted land for his soldiers and ratificatio
n of his treaties in the East.  The third wanted the consulship in 59 BCE.  They banded together and achieved all of their goals, though all were dead fifteen years later.  FTP, what name is given to this partnership of Crassus, Pompey, and Julius Caesar?

\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer: first {\ul triumvirate}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 \page {\b Les Enfants Terribles
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\b Academic Quiz Bowl Tournament
\par Packet #5 by Iowa State University
\par 18-19 April 1997
\par 
\par Bonuses}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 1. Answer the following questions about the beginning of World War I for the stated number of points.
\par a. For five points each, identify the commanding generals of the French and German armies.
\par Answer:\tab Joseph Jacques C\'e9saire {\ul Joffre}; Helmuth von {\ul Moltke}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 b. For ten points each, identify the tactical battle plans of the French and Germans; plans which had the French attacking near Alsace-Lorraine and the Germans circling through Belgium on the right.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul Plan XVII} ({\ul Plan 17}); von {\ul Schlieffen} Plan
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 2. {\cchs256 Identify the following ice hockey terms for ten points each.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 a{\cchs256 . Technically, it refers to three consecutive goals by one player, but more commonly refers to any three goals by a player in one game.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\ul\cchs256 hat trick}{\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 b{\cchs256 . This type of penalty usually comes in 10 minute and game varieties, but the offending player's team does not have to play short-handed.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\ul\cchs256 misconduct}{\cchs256  penalties
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 c. This penalty occurs when a player shoots the puck across both the centerline and the opponent's goal line and an opponent is the first to touch the puck.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\ul\cchs256 icing}{\cchs256  the puck
\par 
\par }3. Identify the men who gave each of the following historic speeches for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 a. This man preached the original Philippics against the planned hegemony and Persian war of Philip of Macedon.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\ul Demosthenes}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 b. This man gave the second Philippics against Mark Antony.  He is also famed for his denunciations of Catiline and Verres.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab Marcus Tullius {\ul Cicero} [KIK-eh-row] ({\ul Tully})
\par c. This American orator delivered the \ldblquote Cross of Gold\rdblquote  speech.
\par Answer:\tab William Jennings {\ul Bryan}
\par 
\par 4. {\cchs256 During "MacBeth" the title character sports three separate titles. For ten points each, name them.
\par }
\par Answer:{\cchs256 \tab }1. {\cchs256 Thane of} {\ul\cchs256 Cawdor}{\cchs256 ,
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\tx720 2. {\cchs256 Thane of _}{\ul\cchs256 Glamis}{\cchs256 _ [GLAMZ]},
\par 3.{\cchs256  }{\ul\cchs256 King of Scotland}{\cchs256  (}{\ul\cchs256 King of the Scots}{\cchs256 )
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 5. The moderator will hand you reproductions of three pre- and early Renaissance paintings.  Identify them for ten points apiece.  [VISUAL LET-01]
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab A. {\i The }{\i\ul Arnolfini Marriage}
\par \tab B. {\i The }{\i\ul Lamentation}
\par \tab C. {\i The }{\i\ul Battle of San Romano}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 6. Answer the following questions about the recent mayoral race in Los Angeles for ten points apiece.
\par a. The Republican incumbent:  He is noted for accepting only a $1/year salary and easily won reelection.
\par Answer:\tab Richard {\ul Riordan
\par }b. The Democratic challenger:  He was a Chicago Seven defendant and received only 34% of the vote.
\par Answer:  Tom {\ul Hayden}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 c. A major issue in the race was Riordan's ouster of this city police chief, hired after the Rodney King incident.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:  Willie {\ul Williams}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 7. Identify the classic computer games in which you would fight each of the following enemies for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 a. pookas and fygars
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Dig Dug}
\par b. spiders, lightbikes, tanks, and colored blocks
\par Answer:\tab {\ul TRON}
\par c. cement pies, fireballs, and barrels
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Donkey Kong}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 8{\cchs256 . Identify the musical from clues }for ten points{\cchs256  each.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 a{\cchs256 . Florence Vassy leaves U}.{\cchs256 S}.{\cchs256  champion and spoiled brat Freddy Trumper for the defecting Anatoly Serg}e{\cchs256 ievsky in this Tim Rice musical.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\i\ul\cchs256 Chess}{\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 b{\cchs256 . Roxie Hart kills her lover, goes on trial, becomes a media sensation thanks to her lawyer Billy Flynn, gets off, and launches a career in vaudeville.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:{\cchs256 \tab }{\i\ul\cchs256 Chicago}{\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 c{\cchs256 . Based on the Edmund Rostand play }{\i\cchs256 Les Romanesques}{\cchs256 , this Schmidt and Jones work is the longest-running musical in America.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\i\cchs256 The }{\i\ul\cchs256 Fantasticks}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 9. Given a list of literary residents, identify the city in which they live for ten points apiece.
\par a. Simon Stimson, Dr. Gibb, Joe Crowell
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Grover\rquote s Corners}
\par Prompt:\tab {\i\ul Our Town}
\par b. Chase Henry, Lucinda Matlock, Patrick Hummer, and Ann Rutledge
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Spoon River}
\par c. Anna Livia Plurabelle, Humphrey Chimpden Earwicker
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Dublin}
\par Accept:\tab {\ul Chapel Izod}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 10. Answer the following questions about the development of rocketry for ten points apiece.
\par a. In 1926, this American designed, built, and launched the world\rquote s first liquid-fuel rocket.
\par Answer:  Robert Hutchings {\ul Goddard}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 b. In 1903, this Russian schoolteacher published the first scientific paper on the use of rockets for space travel.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:  Konstantin E. {\ul Tsiolkovsky}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 c.  In 1919, this German\rquote s \ldblquote The Rocket into Interplanetary Space\rdblquote  discussed the technical problems of space flight.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:  Hermann {\ul Oberth}
\par 
\par 11. Answer the following questions about British laws for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 a. Passed in 1911, it deprived the House of Lords of all power over financial bills and reduced the length of a parliament to five years.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul Parliament} Act
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 b. The Reform Act of 1832 was the first attempt to eliminate these districts which had maintained their representatives while having few, or even zero, constituents.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul rotten boroughs}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 c. Passed in the Middle Ages and in 1822, 1828, and 1842, they were used to regulate the export, import, price, and supply of grain.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul Corn} Laws
\par 
\par 12. Given some of the theory behind a particle\rquote s existence, identify it for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 a. This particle was postulated in the 1920\rquote s to maintain conservation of energy and momentum in observed radioactive decays.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer;\tab {\ul neutrino}s
\par b. This particle was postulated as a physical example of the negative-energy solutions of the Dirac equation.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul anti-electron}s ({\ul positron}s)
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 c. This class of particle was theorized to exist in the 1930\rquote s on the basis of energy-time uncertainty relations by Hideki Yukawa.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul meson}s
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 13. The Caspian Sea is bordered by five countries and one national capital.  For five points each, name these five nations and one city.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Russia},
\par \tab {\ul Kazakhstan},
\par \tab {\ul Azerbaijan},
\par \tab {\ul Iran},
\par \tab {\ul Turkmenistan};
\par \tab {\ul Baku}, Azerbaijan
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 14. Answer the following questions about Addison's disease for ten points
\par apiece.
\par a. The direct cause of the weakness, dizziness, vomiting, and other
\par symptoms is insufficient production by what gland?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul adrenal} gland ({\ul suprarenal} gland)
\par b. The adrenal gland itself may fail, or insufficient ACTH might have
\par been produced to stimulate it.  Which gland produces ACTH?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul pituitary}
\par c. Which twentieth century U.S. President may be the most famous victim
\par of Addison's disease?
\par Answer:\tab John F. {\ul Kennedy} (1917 - 1963)
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 15. Identify each of the following short stories by American authors from brief descriptions for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 a. Montresor avenges himself on Fortunato for a thousand injuries and one insult.
\par Answer:\tab {\i The }{\i\ul Cask of Amontillado}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 b. Peyton Farquhar is arrested and executing for attempting to demolish a bridge being used by the Union army.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\i An }{\i\ul Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 c. A small town with a reputation for virtue loses it when multiple elders try to claim credit for a fictional good deed.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\i The }{\i\ul Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg}
\par Wrong:\tab The Man Who Corrupted Hadleyburg
\par 
\par 16. Identify the following characteristics of a probability distribution for fifteen points apiece.
\par a. It\rquote s equal to the second moment of the distribution minus the square of the first moment.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul variance}
\par b. It\rquote s equal to the expected value of the natural logarithm of one over the probability.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul entropy}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 17. Identify the following European works for fiction for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 a. This Russian novel focuses on Chichikov\rquote s attempt to achieve power by buying up deceased serfs ostensibly to save their owners on taxes.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\i\ul Dead Souls}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 b. This French novel examines Antoine Roquentin who is distracted from his historical studies by the search for the meaning of life.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\i\ul Nausea}
\par c. This German short story examines interfamily prejudice against beetles.
\par Answer:\tab {\i Die }{\i\ul Verwandlung} ({\i The }{\i\ul Changeling}{\i , The }{\i\ul Metamorphosis})
\par 
\par 18. Identify the following relating to international trade for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 a. This two-word term describes the effect that for any two countries and two products, one of them can produce each good with lower opportunity cost, no matter what their individual technology or resource levels are.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\ul comparative advantage}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 b. This 19th century economist was the first to formulate  a theory of international trade based on comparative advantage.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab David {\ul Riccardo}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 c This 20th century Swedish economist, with his student Bertil Ohlin, reformulated Riccardo\rquote s ideas in terms of differing factor prices, producing the modern theory.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab Eli {\ul Heckscher}
\par 
\par 19. Identify the man who won the Nobel prize in chemistry for each of the following for ten points apiece.
\par a. Creation of a workable method of radiocarbon dating
\par Answer:\tab Willard G. {\ul Libby}
\par b. Discovery of deuterium
\par Answer:\tab Harold C. {\ul Urey}
\par c. Determination of the structure of insulin.  He is also the only man to have won two Chemistry prizes.
\par Answer:\tab Frederick {\ul Sanger}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 20. Answer the following questions about the presidency of Chester A. Arthur for ten points apiece.
\par a. What act did Congress pass in 1883, partly as a result Garfield\rquote s assassination?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Pendleton} Civil Service Act
\par b. What political fraud involving postal routes enveloped two of Arthur\rquote s close political allies?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Star Route} Fraud
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 c. What did Congress prohibit for 20 years in 1882 only to reduce the duration to 10 years to override Arthur\rquote s veto?
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul Chinese immigration}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 
\par }}