{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f13\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Geneva{\*\falt Arial};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar \f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar \f13 \sbasedon0\snext15 WP_Normal;}}{\info{\title Les Enfants Terribles}
{\author R. Robert Hentzel}{\operator R. Robert Hentzel}{\creatim\yr1997\mo4\dy6\hr14\min3}{\revtim\yr1997\mo4\dy23\hr19\min36}{\version15}{\edmins87}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2544}{\nofchars14505}{\*\company  }{\vern57443}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade 
\fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \widctlpar\tx720 \f4\fs20 {\b Les Enfants Terribles
\par Academic Quiz Bowl Tournament
\par Packet #1 by Iowa State University
\par 18-19 April 1997
\par 
\par Toss-Ups}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 1. {\cchs256 He made contributions to thermodynamics, biology, medicine, and industrial chemistry}, including h{\cchs256 is phase rule explained }the {\cchs256 relation}ship among the different phases of the different substances in 
{\cchs256 a }mixture.  He is most famous for work with Duhem and Helmholtz dealing with difference of enthalpy and the product of temperature and entropy which characterized the direction of a chemical reaction.  FTP, name this American scientist or
 his signature free energy.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab Josiah Willard {\ul Gibbs}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 2. It was intended to divide the Roman Catholics and Eastern Orthodox people into their appropriate countries.  Pilsudski rejected it, however, 
and conquered an area well to the east of it. It reappeared in 1945 as the border between newly reconstituted Poland and the Soviet Union.  FTP, name this political line drawn by the British Foreign Secretary for whom it is named.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Curzon} Line
\par 
\par 3. It claims that imagination is \ldblquote nothing but decaying sense;\rdblquote 
 and that knowledge comes from sense experience, while wisdom comes from reason.  The book then describes the state as an artificial man, with officers as joints and punishments as nerves; its final chapter, \ldblquote Of the Kingdom of Darkness,
\rdblquote  alleges that the papacy is guilty of misinterpreting Scripture to justify its power.  FTP, identify this treatise justifying absolute monarchy by Thomas Hobbes.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\i\ul Leviathan} {\i Or The Matter, Form, and Power of a Commonwealth, Ecclesiastical or Civil}
\par 
\par 4. This opera begins and ends in an attic, though other action occurs at the gates of Paris where characters rhapsodize on the flowers in the springtime, and in a caf\'e9 in the Latin Quarter.  The troubles begin when Marsell
o and Musetta quarrel over her flirtations and Rodolfo\rquote s insane jealousy drives Mimi away.  FTP, name this Puccini opera which provided the story for Jonathan\rquote s Larsen\rquote s musical {\i Rent}.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\i La }{\i\ul Boh\'e8me}
\par 
\par 5. Juvenal Urbino in {\i Love in the Time of Cholera}, Thomas Stockmann in {\i An Enemy of the People}, Roger Chillingworth in {\i The Scarlet Letter}, John Watson in {\i A Study in Scarlet}, Martin Arrowsmith in {\i Arrowsmith}, and Robert Jekyll 
are all, for ten points, fictional practitioners of what profession?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab medical {\ul doctors}
\par Accept:\tab {\ul medicine}
\par Accept:\tab {\i\ul Love in the Time of Cholera} before \ldblquote Love\rdblquote 
\par 
\par 6. 
Max von Laue, working with zinc sulfide, laid the basis for the experimental technique that won Dorothy Hodgkin and Maurice Wilkins separate Nobel Prizes for their studies of penicillin, vitamin B12, and DNA.  FTP, what is this technique, most associated 
with the father/son team of William and William Bragg which utilizes the wave properties of high energy photons to study small structures?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul X-ray diffraction} or {\ul X-ray crystallography}
\par Prompt:\tab {\ul diffraction} or {\ul crystallography}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 7. It is named for a explorer who served on two of James Cook's expeditions and who later became the first to sail around the Strait of Juan de Fuca and into the Strait of Georgia.  It covers 12,000 square miles and 
is the site of Strathcona Provincial Park and Pacific Rim National Park.  FTP, name this island which houses Victoria, the capital of British Columbia.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Vancouver} Island
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 8. She killed her younger brother Absyrtus and threw the fragments overboard to prevent her father from returning her and her treasure to Colchis.  She also killed her husband\rquote 
s evil uncle Pelias, sent a poisoned robe to his new wife Creusa, slew their children, set fire to palace, and fled.  FTP, who is this Greek sorceress who fell in love with Jason and allowed him to steal the Golden Fleece?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Medea}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 9. Unity, self-determination, collective work and responsibility, cooperative economics, purpose, creativity, and faith.  Each of these principles has a day devoted to it during this week-long celebration, 
started in 1966 by Ron Karenga.  FTP, identify this holiday which lasts from December 26 to January 1 and whose name  comes from a Swahili word for "first fruits".
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Kwanzaa}
\par 
\par 10. The Pan
ic of 1873 brought together Southern and Western farmers in a loose political alliance.  It had its greatest success in 1878 when 14 of its congressional candidates were elected.  By 1884 it had dissolved, with many of its members becoming Populists.  FTP
, what was this American political party founded to promote--and named for--currency expansion?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Greenback} Party
\par 
\par 11. From 1970 to 1979 an award was made in each conference; recipients included Chuck Foreman and Boobie [sic] Clark for 1972.  The first w
as given in 1956 to Charley Taylor.  No one has ever won twice--or ever will--though Marino won in 1983 and Barry Sanders won in 1989, the first year they were eligible.  FTP, what is this professional football award made each year by {\i 
The Sporting News} to a deserving neophyte?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Rookie of the Year}
\par 
\par 12. The{\cchs256  most famous are in the troposphere, where there are three main types:  polar, subtropical, and equatorial.  The north polar one varies its position greatly, while the equatorial one exists only in the 
summer over Southeast Asia and Africa.  }The{\cchs256  core of strongest winds is about 60 miles wide and can move at} {\cchs256 200 miles per hour.  FTP, name th}e{\cchs256 se mete}o{\cchs256 rological phenomena.
\par 
\par }A{\cchs256 nswer:}\tab {\ul\cchs256 jet stream}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }13. 
He built his reputation pacifying French Sudan and Madagascar and serving ably as governor general of Madagascar from 1901-1905.  He declined the post of supreme commander of the French Army in 1911 due to age and health.  He gained his greatest fame when
, as military commander of Paris at the start of WWI, he saved France through his heroic defense at the First Battle of the Marne.  FTP, name this French officer.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab Joseph-Simon {\ul Gallieni}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 14. [Host:  Pre-read to get the poetic meter right.]
\par His eyes had all the seeming of a demon that was dreaming
\par On the pallid bust of Pallas just above the chamber door.
\par He came in bleak December to one who did remember
\par All too well the radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore.
\par And, stately in his bidding, poses for his ridding
\par Merely such a query:  to name this ebon fury
\par For ten points now and ceasing phasmagore,
\par Speak aloud this piece of quaint and curious lore.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab the {\ul raven}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 15. {\cchs256 In 1800 he wrote the four-volume }{\i\cchs256 Les Crimes de l'Amour}{\cchs256 , which contained the essay "Reflections on the Novel."} {\cchs256  His philosophical works include }{\i\cchs256 
Dialogue Between a Priest and a Dying Man}{\cchs256  and }{\i\cchs256 Philos}{\i o}{\i\cchs256 phy of the Bedroom}{\cchs256 . FTP, identify this author, playwright, and libertine, whose masterpiece is about four months of sexual deviancy.
\par }
\par {\cchs256 Answer:}\tab {\cchs256 Donatien Alphonse }{\ul\cchs256 Fran\'8dois}{\ul 
\par }Accept:\tab M{\cchs256 arquis de }{\ul\cchs256 Sade}{\ul 
\par }{\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 16. {\cchs256 In a 1977 plebis
cite, this nation voted for independence from France and made Hassan Gouled Aptidon its first president.  Since then its National Assembly has been dominated by its largest ethnic group, the Issas, with the Afar minority calling for greater political powe
r.} {\cchs256  FTP, name this desert republic located on the east coast of Africa separated from Yemen by the Bab al Mandab.
\par }
\par Answer:\tab {\ul\cchs256 Djibouti}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 17. He holds the first industrial patent ever recorded, for hoisting gear used on a special marble-moving barge.  Alberti dedicated {\i OnPainting} to this infrequent painter, who rediscovered the laws of perspective.  
For ten points, identify this ex-sculptor who lost the Baptistery doors commission to Ghiberti but went on to architectural greatness with the dome of the cathedral of Florence. 
\par 
\par Answer:\tab Filippo {\ul Brunelleschi}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 18. {\cchs256 Persian legend states that she was the daughter of a Chinese king}.{\cchs256   Ethiopians hold that she was the mother of the}ir{\cchs256  royal house. } {\cchs256 An Arab tale }claims{\cchs256 
 she had very hairy legs and King Solomon ordered his demons to create a depilatory for her. } {\cchs256 
FTP, name this woman who ruled southwestern Arabia in the 10th century BCE and tested Solomon's wisdom with a series of riddles, rewarding him with gold when he was successful.
\par }
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Queen of Sheba} ({\ul Bilgis}, {\ul Makeda})
\par {\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 19. Palomino horses, when bred, produce Cremello, light chestnut, and Palomino offspring in F2 generation.  The populations are in the 1:2:1 phenotypic ratio
 characteristic of this phenomenon.  It was first observed by Hugo de Vries when pink snapdragons resulted from crosses of red and white.  FTP, name this phenomenon when genes are not paired as dominant/re
cessive but produce a phenotypically different heterozygote.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 
\par Answer:\tab incomplete {\ul dominance}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 20. {\cchs256 Ben intended to go to Alaska and ended up in Africa. } {\cchs256 Biff is a kleptomaniac. Happy is a womanizer. } {\cchs256 And the title character is losing himself more and more in past memories
 as his job disintegrates.} {\cchs256  FTP, identify this Arthur Miller play about Willy Loman.
\par }
\par {\cchs256 Answer:\tab }{\i\ul\cchs256 Death of a Salesman}{\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\b 
\par \page Les Enfants Terribles
\par Academic Quiz Bowl Tournament
\par Packet #1 by Iowa State University
\par 18-19 April 1997
\par 
\par Bonuses}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 1. Answer the following questions on the presidency of James Madison for ten points apiece.
\par a. What name was given to Henry Clay, Felix Grundy, John Calhoun, and others in their role of promoting war to gain Canada and Florida?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul War Hawks}
\par b. What secret 1814 meeting led to the collapse of the Federalist Party after it was rumored to have discussed the secession of New England? 
\par Answer:\tab the {\ul Hartford} Convention
\par c. What four-word phrase is usually used to describe the period beginning in the two years following the War of 1812 during which prosperity ran rampant?
\par Answer:\tab \ldblquote {\ul Era of Good Feeling}\rdblquote 
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 2. Given the surface feature, identify the non-terrestrial planetary body on which it can be found for ten points apiece.
\par a. the Golubkina and Lise Meitner craters
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Venus}
\par b. Mount Pele
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Io}
\par c. Great Dark Spot
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Neptune}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 3. 
A rod of length 1 meter centered at the origin is oriented north/south along the y-axis.  A particle of mass 1 kilogram traveling 1 meter per second to the east strikes the rod at its northernmost point.  Answer the following questions for fifteen points 
apiece.
\par a. What is the angular momentum of the rod after the collision about its center?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul 0.5} kilogram meter squared per second squared
\par b. After the rod has made one quarter of a revolution, in what direction does its angular momentum vector point?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul up} (along the {\ul positive z-axis}{\cchs256 )}
\par 
\par 4{\cchs256 . Given }each character, identify the work he narrates for ten points apiece.{\cchs256 
\par }a{\cchs256 . Nick Carraway
\par }Answer:\tab {\i\cchs256 The }{\i\ul\cchs256 Great Gatsby}{\cchs256 
\par }b{\cchs256 . Jake Barnes
\par }Answer:\tab {\i\cchs256 The }{\i\ul\cchs256 Sun Also Rises}{\cchs256 
\par }c{\cchs256 . Humbert Humbert
\par }Answer:\tab {\i\ul\cchs256 Lolita}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 5. Given each of the following Shakespearean characters, identify his or her killer for ten points apiece.  \ldblquote None\rdblquote  is an answer if the character is alive at the end of the play.
\par a. Hotspur
\par Answer:\tab Prince {\ul Hal} (King {\ul Henry V} Lancaster of England)
\par b. Mercutio
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Tybalt}
\par c. Portia, wife to Brutus
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Portia}, wife to Brutus
\par 
\par 6. Identify the following Shel Silverstein characters for ten points apiece.
\par a. Despite God\rquote s stern warning to Noah, he was unable to get these stupid frolicking creatures onto the Ark and thus they perished.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul unicorn}s
\par b. This lazy lout simply would not take the garbage out.
\par Answer:\tab Sarah Cynthia Sylvia {\ul Stout}
\par c. She gave everything she had to the boy he loved:  her attention, her apples, her wood, and finally her stump to rest on.
\par Answer:\tab the {\ul giving tree}
\par 
\par 7. The moderator will hand you three reproductions of paintings from near the turn of the century.  Identify the works for ten points apiece.  [VISUAL LET-02]
\par 
\par Answer:\tab A. {\i Les }{\i\ul Demoiselles d\rquote Avignon}
\par \tab {\i (The }{\i\ul Women}{\i  of (from) }{\i\ul Avignon}{\i )}
\par \pard \fi720\widctlpar\tx720 B. {\i\ul I and the Village}
\par C. {\i\ul Where did we come from?  Why are we here?  Where are we going?}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par 8. Answer the following questions about white blood cells for ten points apiece.
\par a. Name either of the two types of phagocytic white blood cells which engulf bacteria directly.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul neutrophil}s or {\ul monocyte}s
\par b. What is the general name given to the non-phagocytic white blood cells?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul lymphocyte}s
\par c. Which type of lymphocyte produces antibodies?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul B} cells
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 9. The moderator will play three excerpts from famous ninth symphonies.  Identify the composer of each for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 
\par Answer:\tab 1. Franz {\ul Schubert},
\par \tab 2. Gustav {\ul Mahler},
\par \tab 3. Anton {\ul Dvor\'e1k}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 10. Identify the following thermodynamic state functions for ten points apiece.
\par a. This state function represents the amount of usable work extractable from a system.  It is zero at chemical equilibrium.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Gibb\rquote s free energy}
\par Prompt:\tab {\ul G}
\par b. This state function is given by the internal energy plus the product of the pressure and volume.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul enthalpy}
\par Prompt:\tab {\ul H}
\par c. This state function is given by the Helmholtz free energy plus the product of temperature and entropy.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul internal energy}
\par Prompt:\tab {\ul U}
\par 
\par 11. Identify the following philosophers from their strange view of reality for ten points apiece.
\par a. This pre-Socratic thinker believed that water was the fundamental substance and that all matter was made from it.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Thales} of Miletus
\par b. This Greek scientist, along with his student Democritus, put forth the first known atomic theory of matter.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Leucippus}
\par c. This 18th century British scholar believed that \ldblquote to be was to be perceived\rdblquote  and that unseen things retained reality only because God was always looking at them.
\par Answer:\tab Bishop George {\ul Berkeley} [BARK-lee]
\par 
\par 12. Identify the following Jane Austen novels from brief plot descriptions for ten points apiece.
\par a. It is a response to the popular \ldblquote Gothic horror\rdblquote  novels and depicts impressionable Catherine drawing false conclusions about a mysterious building.
\par Answer:\tab {\i\ul Northanger Abbey}
\par b. This novel focuses on the efforts of Mrs. Bennet to get her five daughters married.
\par Answer:\tab {\i\ul Pride and Prejudice}
\par c. The novel focuses on Miss Woodhouse\rquote s attempt to make a suitable match for her friend who is the illegitimate daughter of a tradesman.
\par Answer:\tab {\i\ul Emma}
\par 
\par 13. Identify the following men active in the 20th century Pan-African movement for ten points apiece.
\par a. He helped found both the Niagara Movement and the NAACP and organized the first Pan-African Congress in London in 1900.
\par Answer:\tab William Edward Burghardt {\ul DuBois} [doo-BOYS] (1868-1963)
\par b. This Gikuyu chieftain and anthropologist founded the African National Union.  He was active in the Kenyan independence movement and became that country\rquote s first Prime Minister.
\par Answer:\tab Jomo {\ul Kenyatta} (1893-1978)
\par c. He was largely responsible for the 1945 Manchester Pan-African Congress and afterwards organized the United Gold Coast Convention.  He became the first Prime Minister of Ghana upon independence.
\par Answer:\tab Kwame Francis Nwia Kofi {\ul Nkrumah} (1909-1972)
\par 
\par 14. Answer the following questions about the geography of Malaysia for five points apiece.
\par a. Malaysia was originally formed when one nation and three British colonies merged in 1963.  Name those four entities.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Singapore}, {\ul Malaya}, {\ul Sarawark}, {\ul Sabah}
\par b. The provinces of Sarawak and Sabah are not on the mainland of Asia; on what large island to the south can they be found?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Borneo}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 15. Identify the following related to the French Revolution for ten points apiece.
\par a. This 1791 act which severed the French church from Rome was the first act which aroused serious opposition to the revolution.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul Civil Constitution} of the {\ul Clergy}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 b. This committee, under Robespierre, directed the revolution during its most terrible period.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul Committee} on {\ul Public Safety}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 c.  This reaction, named for the month of the French calendar in which it occurred, toppled Robespierre.  It was launched by members of the Committee he had accused of treason.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul Thermidor}ean Reaction
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 16. Given each of the following works of world literature, identify the country or nation of which it is an epic for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 a. {\i Kalevala}
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Finland}
\par b. {\i Os Luciad} [osh LOO-she-ad]
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Portugal}
\par c. {\i Mabinogion}
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Wales}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 17. Identify the following people, all of whom were recently named to Time Magazine\rquote s 1997 list of \ldblquote The Most Influential People in America\rdblquote  for ten points apiece each.
\par a. The only elected official on the list, this Republican Senator from Arizona and former Vietnam POW was cited for killing off peers\rquote  pork-barrel projects.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab John {\ul McCain}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 b. Although his audience is barely half that of Howard Stern\rquote s, this shock-jock was cited for translating \ldblquote stodgy politics into vital popular culture.\rdblquote 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab Don {\ul Imus}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 c. Chair of Harvard\rquote s Afro-American-studies department, he co-edited the {\i Norton Anthology of African-American Literature}.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab Henry Louis \ldblquote Skip\rdblquote  {\ul Gates}, Jr.
\par 
\par 18. Identify the following languages of Spain for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 a. This form of Spanish, named after the kingdom of Queen Isabella, is the official language of the country.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul Castilian} Spanish
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 b. Similar to the Proven\'e7al tongue of southern France, it is spoken in the area in and around Barcelona.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:  {\ul Catalan}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 c. Also called Euskara, it is spoken in northern Spain, in and around the city of Bilbao.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:  {\ul Basque}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 19. Identify the following mathematical structures for fifteen points apiece.
\par a. This is any set of objects with a closed binary operation that is associative.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul semigroup}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 b. This is any set of objects which is a group under addition and with a distributive multiplication.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul ring}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 20. {\cchs256 Identify the following Nebraskans }for ten points apiece{\cchs256 .
\par a. Secretary of State for Wilson, he lost 3 Presidential elections as the Democratic nominee.
\par Answer:}\tab {\cchs256 William Jennings }{\ul\cchs256 Bryan}{\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 b. Featured in John F. Kennedy's }{\i\cchs256 Profiles in Courage}{\cchs256 , he, along with New York's LaGuardia, co-sponsored a labor relations act in the 1930's.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 Answer:}\tab {\cchs256 George }{\ul\cchs256 Norris}{\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 c. Secretary of Agriculture during Cleveland's second term, this originator of Arbor Day represents Nebraska in Statuary Hall along with Bryan.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 Answer:}\tab {\cchs256 Julius Sterling }{\ul\cchs256 Morton}{\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par }