{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f13\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Geneva{\*\falt Arial};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar \f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar \f13 \sbasedon0\snext15 WP_Normal;}}{\info{\title Les Enfants Terribles}
{\author R. Robert Hentzel}{\operator R. Robert Hentzel}{\creatim\yr1997\mo4\dy6\hr14\min52}{\revtim\yr1997\mo4\dy23\hr19\min35}{\version15}{\edmins74}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2682}{\nofchars15289}{\*\company  }{\vern57443}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \widctlpar\tx720 \f4\fs20 {\b Les Enfants Terribles
\par Academic Quiz Bowl Tournament
\par Packet #4 by Iowa State University
\par 18-19 April 1997
\par 
\par Toss-Ups}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 1. Interstate 696 near Detroit is named in honor of a man who rose from working on the assembly line to the presidency of the United Automobile 
Workers, and then the presidency of the CIO in 1952.  He helped orchestrate the AFL-CIO merger in 1955, but clashes with George Meany led him to remove the UAW from that federation in 1968.  FTP, name this American labor leader who died in a plane crash t
wo years later.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab Walter {\ul Reuther}
\par 
\par 2. He was librarian of Congress from 1939 to 1944 and undersecretary of state from 1944 to 1945, but is better known as an author.  His concern with fascism is shown in {\i Frescoes for Mr. Rockefeller\rquote s City} and {\i Panic}.  He
 won three Pulitzer Prizes, one for a collection of poetry, one for a narrative on the conquest of Mexico titled {\i Conquistador}, and one for a verse drama based on the story of Job, {\i J.B.}  FTP, name this American  poet.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab Archibald {\ul MacLeish}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par 3. The \ldblquote gate theory\rdblquote  of pain, stimulated production of endorphins, and the actual existence of meridians, are the three major theories of its success.  Supposedly the 12 paired and 2 unpaired meridians 
contain points which, when stimulated, correct the balance of Yin and Yang in the body.  FTP, identify this increasingly popular Chinese method of relieving pain and treating disease.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul acupuncture}
\par 
\par 4. After his retirement, he began teaching mathematics at a boarding school in England.  His encounters with Tegan Jovanka and Turlough lead him into additional time-traveling adventures similar to those when he 
was head of the United Nations Intelligence Taskforce or UNIT.  FTP, who is this Brigadier who repeatedly assisted Doctor Who when his missions brought him to nexus point Earth?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab Brigadier (former Colonel) Alistair Gordon {\ul Lethbridge-Stewart}
\par 
\par 5. He was particularly proud of his pumpkin-headed prophet {\i Zuccone}, though it wasn\rquote 
t the first piece to demonstrate that he was the first Renaissance sculptor to master the clothed depiction of the human body.  Earlier works in the Or San Michele like {\i St. Mark} and the {\i St. George Tabernacle}
 show his progression beyond his master, Ghiberti.  FTP, name this Florentine sculptor of the bronze {\i David}.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Donatello}
\par 
\par 6. He hoped that he could help his friend Paul Reisling mend his marriage, but Paul pre-empted him by killing his wife.  Shaken, 
he fell under the influence of liberal mayoral candidate Seneca Doane and began an affair with Tanis Judique.  When his wife fell ill, however, he returned to her side and his former ways.  FTP, name this title character of Sinclair Lewis, the epitome of 
social conformity.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab George Follansbee {\ul Babbitt} (accept {\ul George})
\par 
\par 7. The a n squared over V term accounts for the finite intermolecular attraction while the b n term accounts for the finite size of molecules.  These two corrections produce a substantially
 more accurate state function for real gases.  FTP, name this variation of the ideal gas law devised by, and named for, a Dutch chemist.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul van der Waals}\rquote  equation 
\par 
\par 8. He offered a bed of roses, a cap of flowers, a kirtle of myrtle, a woolen gown, \ldblquote fair-lined slippers for the cold,\rdblquote  and \ldblquote A belt of straw and ivy buds / with coral clasps and amber studs\rdblquote 
 in order to move her to live with him and be his love.  FTP, who is this Christopher Marlowe character who diverted time from tending sheep to write poetry?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab the {\ul passionate shepherd}
\par Accept:\tab {\i The }{\i\ul Passionate Shepherd to His Love}
\par 
\par 9. A sub-sealevel salt marsh at the base of cliffs on the south and the sea on the north, made this the only place where the lines could not be breached.  General Auchinleck succeeded in repelling initial German attacks, but it wasn\rquote 
t until the third battle when the British, led by Lieutenant General Montgomery, succeeded in driving the Afrika Korps back.  FTP, what was this 1942 series of battles which prevented Egypt from falling to the Germans?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab El {\ul Alamein}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 10. After a drunken Glazunov butchered his first symphony, he sank into a depression and nearly stopped composing altogether.  It wasn\rquote t until 1891\rquote 
s Second Piano Concerto that he achieved any measure of national success or internal equilibrium.  He then embarked on his major period of composition until emigrating to America and devoting himself to performance
.  FTP, name this Russian pianist and composer of {\i The Isle of the Dead}, {\i The Rock}, and a celebrated {\i Variations on a Theme of Paganini}.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab Sergei {\ul Rakhmaninov}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 11
. A history of two millenia of ties binding England and Palestine, a study of the American Revolution in the context of two centuries of European politics, a social history of the 20 years preceding World War I, a study of the opening month of World War I
, and a biography of General Stilwell.  FTP, what American historian has penned such works including {\i The Proud Tower}, {\i Bible and Sword}, and {\i The Guns of August}?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab Barbara W. {\ul Tuchman}
\par Accept:\tab {\i\ul Bible and Sword} until \ldblquote American\rdblquote 
\par 
\par 12
. On a bare desolate crag in the Scythian country of the Caucasus, Might and Violence stand watch over two gods on the orders of Zeus who, though he never actually appears, looms behind the action as a vengeful, power-hungry dictator.  They are there to w
atch Hephaestus carry out the sentence of a Titan.  FTP, what is this Aeschylus play whose bound hero has become a symbol of the indomitable individual?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\i\ul Prometheus Bound}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Prompt:\tab {\ul Prometheus} until \ldblquote play\rdblquote 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par 13. Choose a complex number z.  Square it and add your original n
umber.  Keep doing this until the number starts growing without bound or you are convinced it will remain small.  Choose a color based on the number of times you squared your result and color the appropriate point on the complex plane.  FTP, what ubiquito
us, snowman-shaped figure from the world of fractals have you created?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Mandelbrot} set
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\tx720 \f13 {\f4\fs20 14. The velocity below which an object moving in a vertical circle will not describe a circular path; the temperature to which a gas must be cooled before it can be 
liquefied by pressure; the point which marks the upper limit of the temperature-pressure curve of a substance; and the mass of fissionable material required to make a fission reaction self-sustaining. The same word can modify all these, as well as this to
ssup, if you are staging a comeback.  For 10 points, what\rquote s the word?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab }{\f4\fs20\ul critical}{\f4\fs20  (velocity, temperature, point, and mass)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\tx720 \f4\fs20 15. Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Philadelphia, Laodicea, and Sardis were the recipients o
f this book, probably written during the reign of Domitian.  It makes mention of seven beatitudes, seven churches, seven spirits, seven lampstands, and seven seals.  FTP, name this New Testament book composed on Patmos by St. John the Divine
, the last book of the Bible.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab The Book of the {\ul Revelation}(s) of St. John the Divine
\par Accept:\tab The {\ul Apolcalypsis} of John
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\tx720 \f13 {\f4\fs20 16. There were 604 of them, and they were divided into three groups: determinatives, phonograms, and ideograms. They fell into disuse after about 300 BCE, but figured prominently in the 1994 movie }{
\i\f4\fs20 Stargate}{\f4\fs20 . For 10 points, name these \ldblquote priestly carvings,\rdblquote  which figured even more prominently in the work of Jean Fran\'e7ois Champollion on the Rosetta Stone. 
\par 
\par Answer:\tab }{\f4\fs20\ul hieroglyph}{\f4\fs20 ics
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\tx720 \f4\fs20 17. If a particle exists in a positive parabolic potential, that is, if the restoring force is proportional to the displacement, then Newton\rquote s equations of motion have a particularly simple solution,
 characteristic of springs and pendula.  FTP, what three-word name, abbreviated SHM, is given to this simple form of cyclic motion?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul simple harmonic} motion
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 18. After his father, Richard, duke of York, was killed in battle with forces of Margaret of Anjou, this man took command of the army.  After winning the throne, he was betrayed by his brother Cl
arence and the earl of Warwick and deposed.  He continued fighting, though, and at the battle of Tewkesbury killed the Prince of Wales and imprisoned Henry VI and Clarence in the Tower of London.  FTP, who is this English king who ruled for another year b
efore his sudden death in 1483?
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Edward IV} York of England
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 19. Phantom Ship, near the southern edge, is the core of a magmatic extrusion.  Wizard Island is the only one of three smaller volcanoes to reach the surface.  It is ringed by the caldera of Mount Mazama,
 a large volcano which collapsed some 7,000 years ago and began to fill with perfectly pure water, forming the second-deepest lake in the Western hemisphere.  FTP, name this Oregon lake.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Crater} Lake
\par Accept:\tab Mount {\ul Mazama} until \ldblquote surface\rdblquote 
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 20. 
The cladistic concept defines them as members of a lineage between two branch points.  The phenetic concept defines them in terms of distance in phenotype space.  The ecological concept defines them as organisms adapted to a particular niche.  The biologi
cal concept, the most popular, defines them as organisms which can produce fertile offspring.  FTP, what is this basic unit of biological classification which puts the first \ldblquote sapiens\rdblquote  in {\i Homo sapiens sapiens}?
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul species}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 
\par \page {\b Les Enfants Terribles
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\b Academic Quiz Bowl Tournament
\par Packet #4 by Iowa State University
\par 18-19 April 1997
\par 
\par Bonuses}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 1{\cchs256 . Identify the}se{\cchs256  works of European literature from clues }for ten points{\cchs256  each.
\par }a{\cchs256 . Composed of seven individual books, the main bulk of it is the reminiscences of Marcel, which are set off due to a tea time snack.
\par }Answer:\tab {\i\ul\cchs256 \'cb la Recherche du temps perdu}{\cchs256  or }{\i\ul\cchs256 In Search of Lost Time}{\cchs256  or }{\i\ul\cchs256 Rem}{\i\ul em}{\i\ul\cchs256 brance of Things Past}{\cchs256 
\par }b{\cchs256 . Written by Thomas Mann, it is the story of the frustrated writer Gustav von Aschenbach and his pass}i{\cchs256 on for a young boy.
\par }Answer:\tab {\i\cchs256 Der }{\i\ul\cchs256 Tod in Venedig}{\cchs256  or }{\i\ul\cchs256 Death in Venice}{\cchs256 
\par }c{\cchs256 . Rodin Raskolnikov is a poor student in Saint Petersburg who kills a pawnbroker in an attempt to prove to himself that he belongs to the exceptional class of men.
\par }Answer:\tab {\i\ul\cchs256 Crime and Punishment}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 2. The moderator will hand you three reproductions of works by painters with recognizable styles.  Identify the painters for ten points apiece.  [VISUAL LET-03]
\par 
\par Answer:\tab A. Franco {\ul Modigliani}
\par \tab B. Franz {\ul Hals}
\par \tab C. Edward {\ul Hopper}
\par 
\par 3. Given a description of an area of the body, identify the artery found there for ten points apiece.
\par a. The shoulders and arms
\par Answer:\tab {\ul subclavian} arteries
\par b. The head and neck
\par Answer:\tab {\ul carotid} arteries
\par c. The branches of the aorta that provides blood to the heart itself
\par Answer:\tab {\ul coronary} arteries
\par 
\par 4. Given one-half of each pair of best friends from mythology, identify the other for ten points apiece.
\par a. Pylades
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Orestes}
\par b. Pythias
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Damon}
\par c. Achates
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Aeneas}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 5. The moderator will play three excerpts from piano pieces.  Identify them for ten points apiece.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab 1. {\i\ul F\'fcr Elise}
\par \tab 2. {\i\ul Rondo Alla Turka}
\par \tab 3. {\i\ul Clair de Lune}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 6. Answer the following questions about the presidency of John Adams for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 a. Adams led a moderate wing of the Federalist party.  Who led the more extreme wing until a few weeks before Adams\rquote  accession, when he retired?
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab Alexander {\ul Hamilton}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 b. Which two men authored resolutions adopted by state legislatures opposing the Alien and Sedition Acts that Adams had signed into law?
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab Thomas {\ul Jefferson} and James {\ul Madison}
\par c. Which two men won more electoral votes than Adams in 1800 in his campaign for re-election?
\par Answer:\tab Thomas {\ul Jefferson} and Aaron {\ul Burr}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 7. Answer the following questions about the Roman Empire near the turn of the third century CE for ten points apiece.
\par a. Name the emperor who divided the realm into four sections to be ruled by a Tetrarchy:  two Augusti and two Caesars.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Diocletian}
\par b. By 323, the Tetrarchy was destroyed and two Augusti began a series of wars.  For ten points each, name these two commanders, the winner of whom reunited the Empire and moved the capital to Byzantium.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Constantine} I \ldblquote the Great\rdblquote , {\ul Licinius}
\par 
\par 8. Identify the following important philosophical works for ten points apiece.
\par a. This 18th century treatise attempts to refute David Hume\rquote s skepticism by proving the existence of synthetic, {\i a priori} knowledge.
\par Answer:\tab {\i\ul Critique of Pure Reason}
\par b. This 17th century work presents a pantheistic, deterministic universe in the mathematical language of axioms and proof.
\par Answer:\tab {\i\ul Ethics}
\par c. This 20th century work poses and attempts to answer the \ldblquote only question of philosophy:\rdblquote   \ldblquote Should man commit suicide?\rdblquote 
\par Answer:\tab {\i The }{\i\ul Myth of Sisyphus}
\par 
\par 9. Given the closing couplet of each of the following sonnets, give its first line for ten points apiece.
\par a. \ldblquote So long as men can breathe or eyes can see, / So long lives this and this gives life to thee.\rdblquote 
\par Answer:\tab \ldblquote {\ul Shall I compare thee to a summer\rquote s day?}\rdblquote 
\par b. \ldblquote One short sleep past we wake eternally, / And Death shall be no more; Death, thou shalt die.\rdblquote 
\par Answer:\tab \ldblquote {\ul Death, be not proud, though some have called thee} / mighty and dreadful.\rdblquote 
\par c. \ldblquote Smiles, tears, of all my life! -- and, if God choose, / I shall but love thee better after death.\rdblquote 
\par Answer:\tab \ldblquote {\ul How do I love thee?  Let me count the ways.}\rdblquote 
\par 
\par 10. Identify the following techniques of the calculus for ten points apiece.
\par a. This is a simple method of estimating an integral by choosing a partition and linearly interpolating between its points.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul trapezoid} rule (method)
\par b. This technique eases integration of rational polynomials by turning them into sums of simpler ones.
\par Answer:\tab method of {\ul partial fractions}
\par c. This algorithm can be used to approximate roots of a function by making a guess, following the derivative to the axis, and using its intercept as the new guess.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Newton\rquote s} method
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 11{\cchs256 . }Identify the following men involved in Irangate for ten points apiece.{\cchs256 
\par }a{\cchs256 . This man, Reagan}\rquote {\cchs256 s National Security Adviser, had set up the arms-for-prisoners deal and carried out the first exchange.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\cchs256 Robert }{\ul\cchs256 McFarlane}{\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 b{\cchs256 . A deputy of McFarlane, he handled both the }failed {\cchs256 second arms shipment, and the sending of secret funds, initially acquired from the Saudis, to the Contras.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\cchs256 Oliver Laurence }{\ul\cchs256 North}{\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 c{\cchs256 . The director of the CIA, he was an enthusiastic supporter of the idea of using the funds gained from selling arms to Iran to support the Contras.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\cchs256 William }{\ul Ca}{\ul\cchs256 sey}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 12. Identify the following American dramas from sources of tension for ten points apiece.
\par a. Eben Cabot feels cheated because his mother\rquote s farm will pass to his young stepmother Abbie whom his father Ephraim has just married.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\i\ul Desire Under the Elms}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 b. Stella\rquote s sister, a previous southern belle, attempts to marry Mitch, a friend of Stella\rquote s husband.  He wants to prevent the union.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\i A }{\i\ul Streetcar Named Desire}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 c. The Younger family uses its matriarch\rquote s insurance check to move into a better neighborhood.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\i A }{\i\ul Raisin in the Sun}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 13. An anti-electron is at rest in a gravitational, electric, and magnetic field.  All three fields point east.  Answer the following questions for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 a. In which direction does the gravitational force point?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul east}
\par b. In which direction does the electric force point?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul east}
\par c. In which direction does the magnetic force point?
\par Answer;\tab {\ul none} (accept equivalents; there is no magnetic force)
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 14. Identify the following nineteenth century European battles for ten points apiece.
\par a. Emperor Napoleon III and 100,000 of his troops were captured at this September, 1870, battle.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul Sedan}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 b. Fought on September 7, 1812, both the French and Russians had enormous casualties, prompting Napoleon to call it, \ldblquote The most terrible of all my battles.\rdblquote 
  Napoleon occupied Moscow, but had to retreat at the onset of winter.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul Borodino}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 c. Fought in Bohemia on July 3, 1866, this major battle of the Austro-Prussian War was the decisive victory for Prussia.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul Sadowa} ({\ul Koniggratz})
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 15. Answer the following questions on benzene ring terminology for fifteen points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 a. For five points each, give the three prefixes (in order), given to the 2,3, and 4 positions of a benzene ring already substituted at position 1.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul ortho}, {\ul meta}, {\ul para}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 b. For five points each, give the names given to benzene rings with one methyl, [pause] two methyls, [pause] and one hydroxyl group attached respectively.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul toluene}, {\ul xylene}, {\ul phenol}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 16{\cchs256 . For }five{\cchs256  points each, name any six of the seven books in the }{\i\cchs256 Chronicles of Narnia}{\cchs256 .
\par }
\par Answer:\tab {\i\cchs256 The }{\i\ul\cchs256 Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe}{\cchs256 
\par \tab }{\i\ul\cchs256 Prince Caspian}{\cchs256 
\par \tab }{\i\cchs256 The }{\i\ul\cchs256 Voyage of the Dawn Treader}{\cchs256 
\par \tab }{\i\cchs256 The }{\i\ul\cchs256 Silver Chair}{\cchs256 
\par \tab }{\i\cchs256 The }{\i\ul\cchs256 Horse and His Boy}{\cchs256 
\par \tab }{\i\cchs256 The }{\i\ul\cchs256 Magician}{\i\ul \rquote }{\i\ul\cchs256 s Nephew}{\cchs256 
\par \tab }{\i\cchs256 The }{\i\ul\cchs256 Last Battle}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 17. Answer the following questions about somewhere you\rquote re glad you\rquote re not, for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 a. What European country has been convulsed with violence ever since the May 1996 election in which the incumbent president won 87% of the vote but opposition groups charged foul?
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\ul Albania}
\par b. Name the embattled President of Albania.
\par Answer:\tab Sali {\ul Berisha}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 c. Name the rebels\rquote  key stronghold in Albania, a northern city being surrounded by U.N. peacekeepers this week.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\ul Vlore}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 18. Identify the following silly abstractions from the various Dungeons and Dragons editions for ten points apiece.
\par a. This was a character\rquote s basic outlook on morality; there were originally three choices:  lawful, neutral, and chaotic, but this was expanded to nine.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\ul alignment}
\par b. This was the measure of how much physical damage a character could take before losing consciousness.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul hit points}
\par Prompt:\tab {\ul h.p.}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 c. This attribute controlled everything from riding horses, to saving versus spell attacks, to learning clerical spells.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\ul wisdom}
\par 
\par 19. {\cchs256 Identify the }following terms of economics for ten points apiece.{\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 a. }This{\cchs256  explains why pre-1965 U}.{\cchs256 S}.{\cchs256  dimes and quarters have almost complete}ly disappeared from circulation:  {\cchs256 
they are made of actual silver, while more recent coins are made of lesser metals.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 Answer:}\tab {\ul\cchs256 Gresham}{\ul \rquote }{\ul\cchs256 s Law}{\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 b. Formulat}ed by Ricardo, it held that no form of market intervention could raise salaries above the subsistence level.{\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 Answer:}\tab {\ul\cchs256 Iron Law of Wages}{\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 c. As GDP increases, part of the increase in spending goes overseas and thus does not affect domestic aggregate demand.  Th}is name is given to the spillover.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 Answer:}\tab {\ul\cchs256 leakage}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }20. {\cchs256 Identify the following capes of the world} for ten points apiece{\cchs256 .
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 a. Located near Dakar, Senegal, this cape marks the westernmost point of Africa and has lent its name to a group of islands and their country.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 Answer:}\tab {\cchs256 Cape }{\ul\cchs256 Verde}{\cchs256 
\par b. Located in Portugal, this is the southwestern most point of the European continent.
\par Answer:}\tab {\cchs256 Cape }{\ul\cchs256 St. Vincent}{\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 c. The westernmost point of Alaska, this cape }ironically shares its name with a member of the British royalty.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 Answer:}\tab {\cchs256 Cape }{\ul\cchs256 Prince of Wales}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }}