{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f13\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Geneva{\*\falt Arial};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar \f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar \f13 \sbasedon0\snext15 WP_Normal;}}{\info{\title Les Enfants Terribles}
{\author R. Robert Hentzel}{\operator R. Robert Hentzel}{\creatim\yr1997\mo4\dy6\hr14\min24}{\revtim\yr1997\mo4\dy23\hr19\min35}{\version15}{\edmins89}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords2816}{\nofchars16052}{\*\company  }{\vern57443}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \widctlpar\tx720 \f4\fs20 {\b Les Enfants Terribles
\par Academic Quiz Bowl Tournament
\par Packet #3 by Iowa State University
\par 18-19 April 1997
\par 
\par Toss-Ups}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 1. It consists of a city at the mouth of the Pearl river and three small islands.  It produces primarily textiles and fireworks, but is most imp
ortant as a source of foreign currency to its only neighbor.  Its government is appointed by Portugal, but in practice China dominates its political life.  FTP, name this territory on the southern coast of China, 40 miles from Hong Kong.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Macao} ({\ul Macau})
\par 
\par 2. {\cchs256 In his }{\i\cchs256 Against Jovinian}{\cchs256 , he defended chastity and monastic life. In his }{\i F}{\i\cchs256 amous Men}{\cchs256 , he discussed the writings of 135 Christian authors. } His{\cchs256 
 feast day is September 30 and he is renowned in legend for removing a thorn from the paw of a lion.  FTP, name this saint whose Latin Vulgate edition was the official translation }of the Bible {\cchs256 for centuries.
\par }
\par Answer:\tab {\cchs256 Saint }{\ul\cchs256 Jerome}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\tx720 \f13 {\f4\fs20 3. It is a specific type of program music, a one-movement orchestral composition unified within itself.  Unlike \ldblquote absolute\rdblquote 
 music, it attempts to tell a story or to set a scene. Franz Liszt is considered its inventor and wrote thirteen of them, the most famous of which are }{\i\f4\fs20 Les pr}{\i\f4\fs20\cchs256 \'8e}{\i\f4\fs20 ludes}{\f4\fs20 , }{\i\f4\fs20 Tasso}{\f4\fs20 
, and }{\i\f4\fs20 Mazeppa}{\f4\fs20 . For ten points, name this musical form which was perfected by Richard Strauss near the end of the 19th century.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab }{\f4\fs20\ul tone poem}{\f4\fs20  (}{\f4\fs20\ul symphonic poem}{\f4\fs20 )
\par 
\par 4. 
Class K is in the lower right; Class O is at the upper left. There is a horizontal line at the top made up of giants and supergiants.  The diagonal connecting K to O is called the Main Sequence. For ten points, provide the hyphenated name for this graph r
elating the size of a star to its spectral luminosity, named for the Danish and British astronomers who developed it.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab }{\f4\fs20\ul Hertzsprung-Russell}{\f4\fs20  diagram
\par Prompt:\tab }{\f4\fs20\ul H-R}{\f4\fs20  diagram
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\tx720 \f4\fs20 5. The cerebral cortex and spinal column begin degenerating in middle
\par age and progress rapidly, inducing muscular weakness, tendon reflex, and
\par spasm.  This is followed by atrophy of the hands, forearms, and legs.
\par There is no known cure.  FTP, name this disease of sufficient power to
\par fell the mighty \ldblquote Iron Horse\rdblquote  of baseball.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul amytrophic lateral sclerosis} ({\ul ALS})
\par Accept:\tab {\ul Lou Gehrig\rquote s} disease
\par 
\par 6. The basic idea is the creation of eyes with your stones and the prevention of your opponent from doing the same by placing his stones in {\i atari}, eliminating their freedoms, and eventually capturing or surrounding them.  The advanced ideas wouldn
\rquote t even fit into an ACF-length question.  FTP, what is this intense game which, until 1600, formed a compulsory course at the Japanese military academy?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Go}
\par 
\par 7. When the current in an LRC circuit neither leads nor lags the driving voltage, t
hen the impedance is simply equal to the resistance and power dissipation is at its greatest.  This occurs for one single frequency, also the frequency at which a capacitor and inductor would oscillate if connected on their own.  FTP, what term from physi
cs denotes this phenomenon?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul resonance} ({\ul resonant} frequency)
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 8{\cchs256 . Among its minor characters are the Bishop of D}_____{\cchs256  }who claims the candlesticks were a gift, and{\cchs256  Enjolras, the leader of the students} at the barricades.{\cchs256  } {\cchs256 
It includes digressions on thieves}\rquote {\cchs256  argot, life in a nunnery, the sewers of Paris, and the Battle of Waterloo. } FTP, name this romantic novel about the mayor, thief, and convict Jean Valjean.
\par {\i 
\par }Answer:\tab {\i\cchs256 Les }{\i\ul\cchs256 Mis\'8erables}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }9{\cchs256 . After hearing }{\i\cchs256 The Last Words of Dutch Schultz}{\cchs256 , you pick up }{\i\cchs256 The Adding Machine}{\cchs256 , which turns out to be }{\i\cchs256 The Soft Machine}{\cchs256 . } {\cchs256 You call the }{\i\cchs256 
Exterminator!}{\cchs256 , one of }{\i\cchs256 The Wild Boys}{\cchs256 , and hop on the }{\i\cchs256 Nova Express}{\cchs256  using }{\i\cchs256 The Ticket That Exploded}{\cchs256 .} {\cchs256  FTP, identify this author you might meet over a }{\i\cchs256 
Naked Lunch}{\cchs256 .
\par 
\par }Answer:\tab {\cchs256 William S. }{\ul\cchs256 Burroughs}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 10. The Clausius Theorem states that for any cyclic process, the line integral of the heat exchanged with the environment divided by the temperature is less than or equal to 
zero.  The difference is zero only if the process is reversible.  FTP, what physical quantity, roughly analogous to the \ldblquote disorder\rdblquote  of the system is constrained to never decrease by this theorem?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul entropy}
\par Accept:\tab {\ul Second Law of Thermodynamics} until \ldblquote quantity\rdblquote 
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 11. He predicted the collapse of the Versailles settlement because of its harsh reparations structure in {\i The Economic Consequences of the Peace}. He followed his attack on 1920\rquote s English policy in {\i 
The End of Laissez Faire} with a work that laid the groundwork for viewing government spending as the key to maintaining stable economic growth.  FTP, name this economist and author of {\i The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money}.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab John Maynard {\ul Keynes}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 12. {\cchs256 
Two mathematical instruments show that it is 10:30 in the morning of April 11, the time that this portrait was supposed to have been finished.  Various symbols of death abound:  a string on the lute is broken, a crucifix is in the extreme upper left, Jean
 de Dinteville wears a badge decorated with a skull and, in the very front, there is a skull that can only be seen by looking from the extreme right.  FTP, identify this painting which show two young }aristocratic{\cchs256 
 diplomats, crafted by Hans Holbein the Younger.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 
\par }Answer:\tab {\i\cchs256 The }{\i\ul\cchs256 Ambassadors}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 13{\cchs256 . The first was founded in 1864 and met primarily in Geneva from 1866-}18{\cchs256 72. The second met in 1889 and }was{\cchs256  been interrupted by both world wars. } {\cchs256 The Third, also called the Comi}n{
\cchs256 tern, was officially abolished in 1943}, and there was an abortive effort by Trotsky to start a fourth in the 1930\rquote s. {\cchs256  FTP, give the shared name of these worldwide socialist organizations named for their cross-border appeal.

\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul\cchs256 International}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 14. It began with a transfer of the U.S. Navy\rquote 
s oil reserves from the Secretary of the Navy to the Secretary of the Interior, who then siphoned oil to the Mammoth Oil and Pan-American Petroleum and Transportation Companies, among others; it ended when Senator Thomas Walsh exposed Secretary Albert Fal
l\rquote s dirty deeds.  For ten points, name this scandal of the Harding Administration, so-called for the town in Wyoming that ultimately proved not to be the government\rquote s cup of tea.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Teapot Dome} scandal
\par 
\par 15. 
The book begins with the opening of a meeting over which Joseph Smiggers presides, and its attendees include Tracy Tupman, Augustus Snodgrass, and Nathaniel Winkle.  From such humble but verbose origins comes a novel of highwaymen, duels, lawsuits, jails,
 and the byways and alleys of old England.  For ten points, name this satire of human relations, in which Charles Dickens details the misadventures of Sam Weller and his employer, the man whose papers form the central interest of the story.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\i The }{\i\ul Pickwick Papers}
\par 
\par 16
. He was governor of the Canary Islands in 1936 when a left-wing government was returned to power.  He led troops from Morocco into  Spain and established a Nationalist government in Burgos.  Three years of civil war later, he became dictator and, with th
e help of the Falange party, ruled Spain.  FTP, who is this dictator who reconstituted the Spanish throne upon his 1975 death?
\par 
\par Answer: Francisco {\ul Franco} y Bahamonde (1892-1975)
\par 
\par 17. They were introduced in the 1822 {\i Analytic Theory of Heat}
 to solve initial value problems arising in partial differential equations.  Because trigonometric functions of different periods are orthonormal, they can be used to represent arbitrary functions in tractable forms.  FTP, what are these series of sines a
nd cosines named for their discoverer?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Fourier} series
\par 
\par 18{\cchs256 . Its name means }\ldblquote {\cchs256 consolidation}\rdblquote {\cchs256  or }\ldblquote {\cchs256 unity}\rdblquote {\cchs256 
, and it was formed in 1973 when the Gahal bloc, consisting of the Herut and Liberal parties merged with the smaller La}\rquote {\cchs256 am bloc, consisting of the Free Center, State List, and Land-of-Israel parties. } {\cchs256 
FTP, name this Israeli political bloc which has made prime ministers of Menachem Begin}, {\cchs256 Yitzhak Shamir}, and B.B. Netanyahu.{\cchs256 
\par }
\par Answer:\tab {\ul\cchs256 Likud}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }19. He told his cousin-in-law about a kiss he\rquote 
d seen between Ruth Varnum and Ned Hale, but that was as close as he would come to making advances.  Nevertheless, his love is returned by his cousin-in-law, but is thwarted by his shrewish hypochondriac wife Zenobia.  A failed attempt at suicide by sled 
leaves Mattie crippled and this New England farmer forever with a limp.  FTP, name this tragic title character of Edith Wharton.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab Ethan {\ul Frome}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 20. He was killed when he reproved a student harshly and was struck down with his own lyre, but the name of this mythological music instructor lives on as Peter\rquote 
s successor in the apostolic chair, the given name of a specialist in molecular bonding and the dangers of nuclear war, and a scripture-quoting, blanket-toting Peanuts character.  FTP, give the shared name.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Linus}
\par Accept:\tab {\ul Linus} Pauling
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 \page {\b Les Enfants Terribles
\par Academic Quiz Bowl Tournament
\par Packet #3 by Iowa State University
\par 18-19 April 1997
\par 
\par Bonuses}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 1{\cchs256 . Given a brief description, identify the founder of one of the American colonies }for ten points{\cchs256  each.
\par }a{\cchs256 . His views on Native Americans and religious freedom forced him to flee from Massachusetts and establish Rhode Island in 1636.
\par }Answer:\tab {\cchs256 Roger }{\ul Wi}{\ul\cchs256 lliams}{\cchs256 
\par }b{\cchs256  Wishing to set up a colony for debtors, he was granted a royal charter and founded Georgia in 1733.
\par Answer:\tab James Edward }{\ul\cchs256 Oglethorpe}{\cchs256 
\par }c{\cchs256 . Granted a tract of land by King James I, he and his followers founded a settlement at Odiorne}\rquote {\cchs256 s Point, the first settlement in New Hampshire.
\par }Answer:\tab {\cchs256 David }{\ul Th}{\ul\cchs256 omson}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 2{\cchs256 . Identify the following track and field stars for ten points each.
\par }a{\cchs256 . In 1979, he ran the 200 meter race in 19.72 seconds, a world record that held until shattered by Michael Johnson this summer.
\par }Answer:\tab {\cchs256 Pietro }{\ul\cchs256 Mennea}{\cchs256 
\par }b{\cchs256 . Running for Finland, he won gold medals at the 1924 Olympic Games in the 1},{\cchs256 500mete
r, 3000 meter, 10000 meter cross-country, 3000 meter team, and cross-country team events. The five gold medals are the most for any track and field athlete at one Olympic Games.
\par }Answer:\tab {\cchs256 Paavo Johannes }{\ul\cchs256 Nurmi}{\cchs256 
\par }c{\cchs256 . Despite dominating the pole vault event for the last decade, he has managed to win only }one {\cchs256 Olympic gold medal, at Seoul in 1988.
\par }Answer:\tab {\cchs256 Sergey Nazarovich }{\ul\cchs256 Bubka}
\par {\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 3. Given each of the following African heads-of-state, identify the country he leads for ten points apiece.
\par a. Liamine Zeroual
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Algeria}
\par b. Daniel arap Moi
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Kenya}
\par c. Sani Abacha
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Nigeria}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 4. The moderator will play three songs written by people named Bob.  Identify the group or person singing the cover and the name of the song for five points per answer.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab 1. Paul {\ul Simon} and Art {\ul Garfunkel}, \ldblquote Times They Are a Changin\rquote \rdblquote ;
\par \tab 2. Jimi {\ul Hendrix},. \ldblquote All Along the Watchtower\rdblquote ;
\par \tab 3. Annie Lennox, \ldblquote Waiting in Vain\rdblquote 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par 5. Identify these characters created by E.B. White for ten points apiece.
\par a. He is a trumpeter swan who cannot honk.  In compensation, he learns to play the trumpet.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Louis} the trumpeter swan
\par b. He is a testy but lovable rat who lives beneath Wilbur\rquote s feeding trough.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Templeton}
\par c. He is a mouse in the family of Frederick C. Little who encounters great adventure on his search for the bird Margalo.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Stuart} Little
\par Prompt:\tab {\ul Little}
\par 
\par 6. Identify the following Christopher Marlowe characters for ten points apiece.
\par a. He is a Scythian shepherd who becomes a great warrior.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Tamburlaine} the Great
\par b. He is a lover of wealth who is forever in competition with Ferneze the Christian and Calymath the Turk for more riches and power.
\par Answer:\tab The {\ul Jew of Malta} ({\ul Barabas})
\par c. She is the queen of Carthage who falls in love with Aeneas, but is abandoned by him.
\par Answer: {\ul Dido}, Queen of Carthage
\par 
\par 7. The moderator will hand you reproductions of three distinctive buildings.  For ten points each, identify their architects.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab A. Antoni {\ul Gaud\'ec}
\par \tab B. Walter {\ul Gropius}
\par \tab C. Frank Lloyd {\ul Wright}
\par \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\tx720 \f13 {\f4\fs18 
\par }{\f4\fs20 8. When the Homeric epic about quiz bowl is written, the Iowa State team and Rob Hentzel will play starring roles. For 5 points each, which figure of the Trojan War would Rob be compared to in these episodes:
\par a. Chris rings in early on a rebounded physics tossup and steals it from Rob. To get even, Rob refuses to buzz in the rest of the round.
\par Answer:\tab }{\f4\fs20\ul Achilles}{\f4\fs20  (}{\f4\fs20\ul Achilleus}{\f4\fs20 )
\par b. Rob predicts that South Carolina will kick Iowa State\rquote s butt. No one listens to him; the final score is South Carolina 420, Iowa State 80.
\par Answer:\tab }{\f4\fs20\ul Cassandra}{\f4\fs20 
\par c. When the most valuable Cyclone award goes to Chad Rob goes berserk and neg fives 43 consecutive tossups.
\par Answer:\tab }{\f4\fs20\ul Ajax}{\f4\fs20  (}{\f4\fs20\ul Aias}{\f4\fs20 )
\par d. Christian is interested in one of the Carleton women. Rob offers to introduce him to her for a small fee.
\par Answer:\tab }{\f4\fs20\ul Pandarus}{\f4\fs20 
\par e. Rob\rquote s buzzer finger gets an infected blister. The team, convinced that they can win without him, dumps Rob at Immediate Med and heads to the tournament.  
\par Answer:\tab }{\f4\fs20\ul Philoctetes}{\f4\fs20 
\par f. Tom Waters submits a round of recycled questions. Rob tries to warn the tournament director not to use them, but gets tangled up in the wires of a buzzer system and is electrocuted.
\par Answer:\tab }{\f4\fs20\ul Laocoon}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\tx720 \f4\fs20 9. Identify the following enemies of Alexander the Great for ten points apiece.
\par a. This Greek city rebelled against his father\rquote s rule after his father\rquote s assassination.  Alexander razed it except for the temples and the house of Pindar.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Thebes}
\par b. Alexander\rquote s victories at Issus and Arbela were against this Persian king.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Darius III}
\par c. Alexander\rquote s greatest battle was at the river Hydaspes against this Indian ruler who was nearly seven feet tall.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Porus}
\par 
\par 10. One of the most important stories from Egyptian mythology concerns the trial of one sibling for the murder of another.  For ten points each, name {\i in order} the sibling who was killed, the son who brought the charges, and the \ldblquote 
father figure\rdblquote  who presided over the trial.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab 1. {\ul Osiris}, 2. {\ul Horus}, 3. {\ul Geb}
\par 
\par 11. Identify the following insects important in the study of evolutionary biology for ten points apiece.
\par a. The red- and white-eyed specimens of this species of Diptera were the subject of Thomas Hunt Morgan\rquote s pioneering work on genetics.
\par Answer:\tab {\i\ul Drosophilia melanogaster
\par }Accept:\tab {\ul fruit fly}
\par b. H.B.D. Kettlewell\rquote s study of this melanic mutations of this species of Lepidoptera allowed him to explain its prevalence near smoggy cities.
\par Answer:\tab {\i\ul Biston betularia}
\par Accept:\tab {\ul peppered moth}
\par c. This well-studied beetle evolved defenses against DDT in 7 years, azinphosmethyl in 5 years, carbofuran in 2 years, pyrethroids in 2 years, and synergist in 1 year.
\par Answer:\tab {\i\ul Leptinotarsa septemlineata}
\par Accept:\tab {\ul Colorado potato beetle}
\par 
\par 12. Identify the following classes of particles for ten points apiece.
\par a. These are particles with half-integral spin like quarks and leptons.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul fermions}
\par b. These are any particles with are comprised of quarks.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul hadrons}
\par c. These are hadrons which consist of a paired quark and anti-quark.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul meson}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 13. Given the programming language and the operator, give the symbol used to represent it for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 a. Pascal, pointer dereference
\par Answer:\tab {\ul ^} ({\ul caret}, {\ul circumflex})
\par b. FORTRAN, unequal
\par Answer:\tab {\ul .ne.}
\par c. C, remainder from integer division
\par Answer:\tab {\ul %} ({\ul percent} sign)
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 14. Identify the following monarchs of Sweden for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 a. This 16th century noble led the movement to break with Denmark and Norway and, in 1523, was named first king of an independent Sweden.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab King {\ul Gustavus I} Vasa of Sweden{\ul 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 b. This queen is primarily remembered for contributing to Descartes\rquote  death by demanding philosophy and mathematics lessons at five o\rquote clock every freezing morning.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab Queen {\ul Christina} of Sweden
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 c. He ruled from 1697-1718 and initially made Sweden one of the great powers in Europe, but lost its their overseas possession in the Great Northern War with Peter the Great.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\ul Charles XII} of Sweden
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par 15. {\cchs256 Given a fossil find of a early human ancestor, identify it }for ten points apiece{\cchs256  each.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 a. Named for the lake at the southern end of the Rift Valley where it was found in the mid-80}\rquote {\cchs256 s by Richard Leakey, it was the remains of a nine-year-old }{\i\cchs256 Homo erectus}{\cchs256 
 and was used to calculate pelvis size in that species.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 Answer:}\tab {\ul\cchs256 Turkana}{\cchs256  boy
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 b. Found in 1974 by Maurice Taieb and Donald Johanson, it was the remains of a mature female who lived over 3 million years ago.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 Answer:}\tab {\ul\cchs256 Lucy}{\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 c{\cchs256 . Found in the early 1900}\rquote {\cchs256 
s, it was believed to have been over 250,000 years old, but later investigation showed it to be jaw of an orangutan colored to make it look old and the teeth filed to make them look more human.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 Answer:}\tab {\ul\cchs256 Piltdown}{\cchs256  Man
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 16. Answer the following questions about the election of 1824 for ten points apiece.
\par a. There were originally four Democratic-Republicans running against John Quincy Adams, but one dropped out early and was elected vice president.  Name him.
\par Answer:\tab John C. {\ul Calhoun}
\par b. Four men received electoral votes, but none a majority, so Congress had to choose from the top three.  Who was eliminated at this step?
\par Answer:\tab Henry {\ul Clay}
\par c. Name the other two Democratic-Republicans that had run.
\par Answer:\tab Andrew {\ul Jackson} and William H. {\ul Crawford}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 17. {\cchs256 Given a line of poetry identify the poet }for ten points{\cchs256  each.  If you need an additional clue, you will receive five points.
\par a. (10}){\cchs256  From 1966}\rquote {\cchs256 s }{\i\cchs256 Digging}{\cchs256 , }\ldblquote {\cchs256 By God, the old man could handle a spade} {\cchs256 /} J{\cchs256 ust like his old man} {\cchs256 /} {\cchs256 My grandfather cut more turf in a day} {
\cchs256 /} Th{\cchs256 an any other man on Toner}\rquote {\cchs256 s bog.}\rdblquote {\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 a. ({\cchs256 5) He won the 1995 Nobel Prize for Literature.
\par }A{\cchs256 nswer:  Seamus }{\ul\cchs256 Heaney}{\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 b. (10) }\ldblquote I hold it true, whate\rquote er befall; / I feel it, when I sorrow most; / \lquote Tis better to have loved and lost / Than never to have loved at all.\rdblquote {\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 b. (5){\cchs256  }The above lines were written upon the death of the author\rquote s dearest friend, Arthur Henry Hallam.{\cchs256 
\par }Answer:  Alfred, Lord {\ul Tennyson}{\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\cchs256 c. (10) }\ldblquote {\cchs256 Apeneck Sweeney spreads his knees} {\cchs256 /} {\cchs256 Letting his arms hang down to laugh,} {\cchs256 /} {\cchs256 The zebra stripes along his jaw} {\cchs256 /} {\cchs256 
Swelling to maculate giraffe.}\rdblquote {\cchs256 
\par }c. {\cchs256 (5) The author}\rquote {\cchs256 s most famous} poem begins. \ldblquote April is the crue{\cchs256 lest month, breeding} {\cchs256 /} {\cchs256 Lilacs out of the dead land,}\rdblquote {\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 A{\cchs256 nswer:  Thomas Stearns }{\ul\cchs256 Eliot}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }18. Name these philosophical movements for ten points apiece.
\par a. An offshoot of the Platonic academy, this branch of philosophy was
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 founded by Arcesilaus and continued by Sextus Empiricus.  It claimed that it was impossible to attain certain knowledge, and all one can do is assess probabilities.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\ul skepticism}
\par b. It began with a circle of Viennese philosophers who argued that
\par a statement could be considered meaningful (much less true) unless it could be empirically
\par verified or falsified.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul logical positivism}
\par Prompt:\tab {\ul positivism}
\par c. Some have accused logical positivism and skepticism of degenerating
\par into this non-philosophy in which the self can be aware only of itself.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul solipsism}
\par 
\par 19. Given each island, identify the body of water in which it can be found for ten points apiece.
\par a. Majorca and Minorca
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Mediterranean} Sea
\par b. Belcher and Mansel
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Hudson Bay}
\par c. Chios and Rhodes
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Aegean} Sea
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 20. It is usually possible to separate mixtures of liquids with different boiling points by repeatedly collecting and separating vapor, liquefying it, and vaporizing again.  Answer the following questions about the 
process for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 a. What name is given to it?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul fractional distillation}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 b. Fractional distillation works when this law is obeyed; it states that the composition of vapor above a mixture has the same make-up as the solution itself.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\ul Raoult\rquote s} Law
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 c. If Raoult\rquote s law is violated such that the actual composition graph has a minimum of maximum, then fractional distillation cannot be used.  What kind of solution whose most common example is 95% ethyl alcohol, 5% water--
is formed at those points?
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\ul azeotrope}
\par 
\par }