{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f13\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Geneva{\*\falt Arial};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar \f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar \f13 \sbasedon0\snext15 WP_Normal;}}{\info{\title Les Enfants Terribles}
{\author R. Robert Hentzel}{\operator R. Robert Hentzel}{\creatim\yr1997\mo4\dy6\hr14\min9}{\revtim\yr1997\mo4\dy23\hr19\min35}{\version14}{\edmins95}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2557}{\nofchars14579}{\*\company  }{\vern57443}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade 
\fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \widctlpar\tx720 \f4\fs20 {\b Les Enfants Terribles
\par Academic Quiz Bowl Tournament
\par Packet #2 by Iowa State University
\par 18-19 April 1997
\par 
\par Toss-Ups}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 1
. This country signed the bilingual Treaty of Ucciali without realizing that the Italian text differed from the Amharic text and gave the Italians a legal protectorate over itself.  Luckily, its king Menelik II rallied an army and defeated the Italians at
 Aduwa in 1896.  FTP, which country is this which ended this brief Italian war with the Treaty of Addis-Ababa?
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Ethiopia} ({\ul Abyssinia})
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 2. He was inspired by Michael Maestlin to ask questions like \ldblquote Why are the planets spaced as they are?\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Why are there six planets?\rdblquote 
  His answer was that the six planetary spheres were separated by the five regular polyhedra.  He published his answer in {\i Mysterium Cosmographicum}
, a work which brought him to the attention of Tycho Brahe.  FTP, who is this German astronomer known for three laws of planetary motion?
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par Answer:\tab Johannes {\ul Kepler} ({\ul Keplerus}) (1571-1630)
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 3
. In defiance of the Pauli Exclusion Principle, it was apparent three otherwise identical fermions could exist in the same state in some hadrons.  What was needed was a new quantum number which had three possible values, thereby allowing the spatial overl
ap.  FTP, what name was given to this property of quarks which eventually led to the naming of its study as quantum chromodynamics?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul color}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 
\par 4. It is used in the production of formaldehyde and antifreeze so it is not surprising that ingestion is potentially fatal and prolonged exposur
e can cause blindness.  It can be synthesized by combining hydrogen and carbon monoxide, though at one time it was commonly obtained from wood.  FTP, name this simplest alcohol of chemical formula CH{\sub 3}OH.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul methanol}, {\ul methyl alcohol}
\par Prompt:\tab {\ul wood alcohol}, {\ul CH}{\ul\sub 3}{\ul OH}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 5. 
He contends with the desperate letters of noseless girls and abused housewives and grapples with his own affair with the wife of a cripple who checks meters.  He is supervised by Shrike, the cynical city editor.  FTP, name this man who writes hi
s advice column under a female name, a creation of Nathanael West.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab Miss {\ul Lonelyhearts}
\par 
\par 6. 
Two trombones and trumpets were added to the orchestra for the last movements; the shrill piccolo colors the storm of the fourth.  In the coda of the Andante, the flute, oboe, and clarinet imitate the calls of the nightingale, quail, and cuckoo.  The thir
d resembles an Austrian folk song.  FTP, name this Beethoven symphony with movement titles like \ldblquote Shepherd\rquote s song:  Happy and Thankful feelings after the storm.\rdblquote 
\par 
\par Answer:\tab Ludwig van {\ul Beethoven\rquote s Sixth} Symphony ({\i \ldblquote }{\i\ul Pastoral}{\i \rdblquote  Symphony})
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 7. Even without a jury decision on whether or not the 12-year old should be electrocuted or imprisoned, public opinion was outraged.  In two separate cases \ldblquote Norris v. Alabama\rdblquote  and \ldblquote 
Powell v. Alabama,\rdblquote  the Supreme Court struck down the eight death penalties because insufficient defense counsel had been provided and blacks had been excluded from the jury.  FTP, name these nine men accused of raping two white women in 1931.

\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Scottsboro Boys} ({\ul Scottsboro Nine})
\par 
\par 8{\cchs256 . Kate Croy is engaged to Merton Densher whom she convinces to woo wealthy}-{\cchs256 but}-{\cchs256 ill Milly Theale in }{\i\cchs256 The Wings of the Dove}{\cchs256 .} {\cchs256  Lambert Strether is sent to Paris to bring back Chad Newsome in 
}{\i\cchs256 The Ambassadors}{\cchs256 . } Isabel Archer goes to Europe to learn about the arts in {\i The Portrait of a Lady}.  {\cchs256 FTP identify the author of these novels whose other wo}r{\cchs256 ks include }{\i\cchs256 Daisy Miller}{\cchs256 
 and }{\i\cchs256 The Turn of the Screw}{\cchs256 .
\par }
\par {\cchs256 Answer:}\tab H{\cchs256 enry }{\ul\cchs256 James}{\cchs256 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Accept:\tab {\i The }{\i\ul Wings of the Dove} until \ldblquote Wings\rdblquote 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 {\cchs256 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\tx720 \f13 {\f4\fs20 9. In October 1917, as World War I lurched into its final paroxysms, the first issue of a little avant-garde magazine quietly made its appearance in Holland. Its pu
blisher had originally intended to call it }{\i\f4\fs20 The Straight Line}{\f4\fs20 
, but Theo van Doesburg settled on another name. For ten points, identify this magazine which glorified the straight line and the right angle, and which named the art movement of Piet Mondrian..
\par 
\par Answer:\tab De }{\f4\fs20\ul Stijl}{\f4\fs20  (The }{\f4\fs20\ul Style}{\f4\fs20 )
\par Wrong:\tab Neoplasticism
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 \f4\fs20 10. He championed the Logos doctrine that distinguished the persons of the Trinity and attacked Pope Zephyrinus as a modalist.  Outraged when Pope Calixtus extended absolution to adulterers, he broke with Rome
 and was elected Pope by a group of dissidents.  This didn\rquote t sit well with the Roman cardinals who created a new title for him.  FTP, name this saint, the world\rquote s first antipope.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab Saint {\ul Hippolytus} of Rome
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 11. \ldblquote 
And whether or not it is clear to you, no doubt the universe is unfolding as it should.  Therefore be at peace with God, whatever you perceive him to be, and whatever your labors and aspirations, in the noisy confusion of life keep peace with your soul.  
With all its sham drudgery and broken dreams, it is still a beautiful world.  Be cheerful.  Strive to be happy.\rdblquote   FTP, what famous list of desired things ends thus?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\i\ul Desiderata}{\ul 
\par }
\par 12.
. Thousands of reindeer were slaughtered across Scandinavia.  Sheep farmers in North Wales were forced to kill significant fractions of their herds.  A quarter of the Belorussian land was made unfit for agriculture.  All this, and unknown affects on futur
e people, were the result of a steam turbine test that went out of control in 1986.  FTP, where was this turbine, now buried in a ponderous concrete shell?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Chernobyl}
\par {\i 
\par }13. It\rquote s the collection of all real numbers with ternary expansions containing no 1\rquote s and is commonly referred to as \ldblquote the universal counterexample of analysis\rdblquote 
 because it is an uncountable set of measure zero.  FTP, what name is given to this fractal formed by successively deleting the middle thirds of all present line segments?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Cantor set} ({\ul Cantor dust})
\par 
\par 14. \ldblquote Concerning liberality and parsimony,\rdblquote  \ldblquote How to avoid contempt and hatred,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Why Alexander\rquote s successors were able to keep possession of Darius\rquote  kingdom after Alexander\rquote s death,
\rdblquote  \ldblquote Mixed principalities,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Concerning cruelty:  Whether it is better to be loved than feared, or the reverse,\rdblquote  and \ldblquote In what way princes should keep their word,\rdblquote 
 are chapters from, FTP, what 1513 Niccol\'f2 Machiavelli work?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\i The }{\i\ul Prince} 
\par 
\par 15
. Freedom for subject peoples in Turkey, recognition of nationalist aspirations in Eastern and Central Europe, freedom of the seas, evacuation by Germany of Russian territory, reduction of armaments, return to France of Alsace-Lorraine, independence for P
oland, adjustment of colonial claims, and establishment of a league of nations were, FTP, parts of what peace program advanced by Woodrow Wilson in 1918?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Fourteen Points}
\par 
\par 16. 
It is a great planet with two suns and two moons, dominated by the desert Jundland filled with Banthas and sandpeople.  The small population uses moisture vaporators to coax water from the air, but the farm boys dream of joining the Academy--or even the A
lliance--from the bustling spaceport of Mos Eisely.  FTP, what is this desert planet, home of Aunt Beru, Uncle Owen, and young Luke Skywalker?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Tatooine}
\par 
\par 17. It splits into east and west branches around Grand Island near Tonawanda, but its much smaller split around Goat Island is far more famous.  It connects Lake Ontario and Lake Erie, but can\rquote 
t be used for shipping for obvious reasons.  FTP, what is this river with a mouth near Buffalo, famous for its tourist-trap falls and towns of the same name?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Niagara} River
\par 
\par 18. This country\rquote s architecture, for safety reasons, is dominated by pentagonal structures.  Rains come from the north, also an area 
where gravity is demonstrably weaker.  Its military consists of isosceles triangles while its government is composed of polygons with so many sides that they are accorded the title of \ldblquote circle.\rdblquote 
  FTP, what is this two-dimensional country first described by Edwin Abbott?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Flatland}
\par 
\par 19. He was mainly known for work on the formation of coral reefs and the ecology of barnacles, before he was persuaded to publish his {\i magnum opus}, a work inspired by Lyell\rquote s uniformitarianism, Malthus\rquote  mathematical biolo
gy, and his own observations as ship\rquote s naturalist on the {\i Beagle}.  FTP, who is this English scientist, commonly named as the father of modern evolutionary biology?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab Charles Robert {\ul Darwin}
\par 
\par 20. Three Frenchmen on the beach in Algiers saw two natives whom Raymond recognized.  They fought inconclusively with fists and knives
.  Later on, they met the same men; the protagonist shot and killed one of the Arabs.  This was the climactic action in a 1942 existentialist work featuring the unfeeling Monsieur Meursault.  FTP, name this Albert Camus work.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\i L\rquote }{\i\ul \'c9tranger} ({\i The }{\i\ul Stranger} or {\i The }{\i\ul Outsider})
\par Wrong:\tab {\i Der }{\i\ul Fremde}
\par 
\par \page {\b Les Enfants Terribles
\par Academic Quiz Bowl Tournament
\par Packet #2 by Iowa State University
\par 18-19 April 1997
\par 
\par Bonuses}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 
\par 1{\cchs256 . Identify }each of the following poems from an excerpt for ten points apiece.{\cchs256 
\par }a{\cchs256 . }\ldblquote {\cchs256 What the hammer? what the chain? / In what furnace was thy brain?}\rdblquote {\cchs256 
\par }Answer:\tab {\i\cchs256 The }{\i\ul\cchs256 Tyger}{\cchs256 
\par }b{\cchs256 . }\ldblquote {\cchs256 Gather ye rosebuds while ye may, / Old Time is still a-flying:}\rdblquote {\cchs256 
\par }Answer:\tab {\i\ul\cchs256 To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time}{\cchs256 
\par }c{\cchs256 . }\ldblquote {\cchs256 The curfew tolls the knell of parting day, / The lowing herd wind slowly o}\rquote {\cchs256 er the lea,}\rdblquote {\cchs256 
\par }Answer:\tab {\i\ul\cchs256 Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 2. Answer the following questions about the election of the U.S. Executive for ten points apiece.
\par a. If an election goes to the House to be decided, how many votes are necessary for a majority decision, assuming full representation?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul 26}
\par b. If no Vice Presidential candidate receives a majority of the electoral votes, how many candidates are submitted to the Senate?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul 2}
\par c. Which amendment to the Constitution specified different electoral ballots for President and Vice President?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul 12}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 3. Given a description of the electron density in a crystal, classify the crystal as a molecular, ionic, metallic, or covalent one for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 a. The electron density is high at every lattice point.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul molecular}
\par b. The electron density is high in between lattice points.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul covalent}
\par c. The electron density is high on every other lattice point.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul ionic}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 4. The moderator will play three excerpts from opera.  Identify the works for ten points apiece.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab 1. {\i La }{\i\ul Traviata},
\par \tab 2. {\i\ul Carmen},
\par \tab 3. {\i Le }{\i\ul Nozze di Figaro} ({\i The }{\i\ul Marriage of Figaro})
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 5. You are in a 1,000 kilogram spaceship traveling at 0.6 times the speed of light relative to an observer.  Answer the following questions about relativistic effects for fifteen points apiece.
\par a. How much mass does the observer measure your spaceship to have?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul 1,250} kilograms
\par b. What does the observer measure your velocity to be?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul 0.6} times the speed of light ({\ul 0.6 c})
\par 
\par 6. Identify the following deceased world leader; 30-20-10.
\par 30. To disprove rumors that he had faked his 1825 death and became a hermit, his coffin was ordered opened in 1865.  It was empty.
\par 20. His beliefs in Eastern Orthodox Christianity and the right of monarchs were pitted against each other in the Greek War of Independence.  He sided with authority, earning the hatred of his subjects.
\par 10. At the Council of Vienna, he established almost precisely the Russian western frontier that was to last 100 years.
\par 
\par Answer: Czar {\ul Alexander I} Romanov
\par 
\par 7. Identify the following characters from the {\i Aeneid} for ten points apiece.
\par a. Aeneus is forced to make the trip to fulfill the destiny of his son who is to found Alba Longa and, indirectly, the Roman race.  Name him.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Ascanius}
\par b. Name Aeneus\rquote  mother, a woman attracted to his father solely for his looks.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Venus}
\par Wrong:\tab {\ul Aphrodite}
\par c. In order to settle in Italy, Aeneus and his men must overcome an Etruscan king on the fields of battle.  Name this king whom Aeneus slays in combat in the closing lines of the epic.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Turnus}
\par 
\par 8. The moderator will hand you reproductions of three examples of Greek sculpture.  For ten points apiece, identify the three works.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab A. {\i\ul Mausolaus}
\par \tab B. {\i\ul Doryphorus} ({\i The }{\i\ul Spearbearer})
\par \tab C. {\i The }{\i\ul Dying Gaul}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 9. Identify the following terms or people from the history of the theater for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 a. This is the name given to non-serious, highly-stereotyped European plays featuring only stock characters like Colombine, Scaramouche, and Pantalone.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\ul commedia dell\rquote arte}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 b. This style of theater was introduced with Jarry\rquote s {\i Ubu Roi} (1896) and may be best exemplified in the works of Eugene Ionesco like {\i The Bald Soprano}.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\ul theater of the absurd}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 c. This Russian actor and co-founder of the Moscow Art Theater created \ldblquote The Method\rdblquote --a sophisticated and popular way of training performers.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab Konstantin Sergeievich {\ul Alekseiev} ({\ul Stanislavski})
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 10. Identify the following parts of the brain stem for ten points apiece.
\par a. The bottom part of the stem, this structure controls breathing,
\par heartbeat, and other vital, but unconscious, bodily processes.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul medulla oblongata}
\par b. It is the bridge which connects the hemispheres of the cerebellum and
\par links the cerebellum and cerebrum.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul pons}
\par c. The upper end of the brain stem consists of two glands which regulate
\par body temperature, hunger, thirst, and other internal conditions.  Name
\par either.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul thalamus} or {\ul hypothalamus}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 11. Israel is still reeling from an investigative committee\rquote s report that its Prime Minister be indicted on charges of fraud and breach of trust because of an appointment he made in January
; answer the following questions concerning this incident for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 a. Name Israel\rquote s Prime Minister.
\par Answer:\tab Benjamin \ldblquote Bibi\rdblquote  {\ul Netanyahu}
\par b. To what position did he appoint Roni Bar-On in January, allegedly fradulently?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul attorney general}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 c. Who is the current attorney general of Israel who faces the decision of whether or not to press forward with the prosecution?
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab Elyakim {\ul Rubinstein}
\par {\ul  }
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 12. Given each school that qualified for the NCAA tournament in 1997, identify the school that eliminated it for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 a. Kansas
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Arizona}
\par b. UCLA
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Minnesota}
\par c. Miami of Ohio
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Clemson}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 13. Answer the following questions about the asteroid belt for ten points apiece.
\par a. This asteroid was the first to be discovered; von Zach used calculations by Gauss to locate its trajectory.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab {\ul Ceres}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 b. Ceres was assumed to be the \ldblquote missing\rdblquote  fifth planet predicted by this 18th century empirical relation until the discovery of other asteroids in 1802.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab Titius-{\ul Bode}\rquote s Law
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 c. It was eventually discovered that the asteroids were divided into several bands with gaps where their periods would be commensurate with Jupiter\rquote s.  What name was given to these gaps in the belt?
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 Answer:\tab (Daniel) {\ul Kirkwood} gaps
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 14. Given the book in which a woman bears a child by a man to whom she is not married, name the child for ten points apiece.
\par a. {\i Tess of the D\rquote Urbervilles}
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Sorrow}
\par b. {\i The Scarlet Letter}
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Pearl}
\par c. {\i As I Lay Dying}
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Jewel}
\par 
\par 15. Mythology abounds in examples of heroes slaying monsters and forming the known world from their carcasses.  For ten points apiece, given the hero, identify the monster he slays to form the earth.
\par a. Marduk
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Tiamat} [TEE-uh-mat]
\par b. Odin
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Ymir} [EE-meer]
\par c. Indra
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Vritra}
\par 
\par 16. Identify the following \ldblquote personalities\rdblquote  involved in the construction of the Panama Canal for ten points apiece.
\par a. This man--who already had the Suez Canal to his name--tried, but failed, to build a Central American canal for France.  The failure caused a minor depression and a major scandal.
\par Answer:\tab Ferdinand {\ul de Lesseps}
\par b. This fiery volcano on Martinique erupted just in time to suggest that geologically-active Nicaragua was inferior as a canal site to more stable Panama.
\par Answer:\tab Mount {\ul Pel\'e9e}
\par c. This American engineer took over the flagging enterprise and pushed it through to completion.
\par Answer:\tab George Washington {\ul Goethals}
\par 
\par 17. Given each series of battles, identify the war in which they were fought for ten points apiece.
\par a. N\'f6rdlingen, Breitenfeld, White Mountain
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Thirty Years}\rquote  War
\par b. Aegospotami, Delium, Syracuse
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Peloponnesian} War
\par c. Leipzig, Jena-Auerst\'e4dt, Trafalgar
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Napoleonic} Wars
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 18. Answer the following questions relating to the philosophy of Descartes for ten points apiece.
\par a. What name is given to theories, like Descartes, that the mind and the physical world are completely, or almost completely, separate phenomena?
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul dualism}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 b. Name the gland in the brain which was the sole spot in which Descartes thought that the mind and brain could interact.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul pineal gland}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 c. Descartes\rquote  disciple Geulincx devised a popular theory which explained the apparent mind-brain interaction as a coincidence.  FTP, what two-word phrase name this theory?
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab \ldblquote {\ul two clocks}\rdblquote 
\par 
\par 19. Identify the following Italian leaders for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 a. After perfecting his guerrilla techniques in South America, this man adopted the \ldblquote Red Shirts\rdblquote  of the gauchos and led the fight for the reunification of Italy.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab Giuseppe {\ul Garibaldi}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 b. This man was Italy\rquote s delegate to the Treaty of Versailles; he resigned when his claims that Austrian territory be given to Italy were not taken seriously by Wilson, Clemenceau, and Lloyd George.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab Vittorio Emanuele {\ul Orlando}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 c. This fascist and poet\rquote s seizure of Fiume in 1919 inspired Mussolini\rquote s march on Rome three years later.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab Gabriele {\ul D\rquote Annunzio}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 20. Identify the following rivers of the American Southeast for ten points apiece.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 a. This river forms the southern half of the Alabama-Georgia border.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Chattahoochee} River
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 b. Unusual in that it flows south to north, this major river runs through Jacksonville, Florida.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul St. Johns} River
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 c. This river flows through Fayetteville, North Carolina and shares its name with a movie in which a Nick Nolte is stalked by Robert De Niro.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 Answer:\tab {\ul Cape Fear} River
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 
\par }