{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f13\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Geneva{\*\falt Arial};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar \f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar \f13 \sbasedon0\snext15 WP_Normal;}}{\info{\title Les Enfants Terribles}
{\author R. Robert Hentzel}{\operator R. Robert Hentzel}{\creatim\yr1997\mo4\dy11\hr2\min41}{\revtim\yr1997\mo4\dy23\hr19\min34}{\version11}{\edmins26}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2489}{\nofchars14188}{\*\company  }{\vern57443}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \widctlpar\tx720 \f4\fs20 {\b Les Enfants Terribles
\par Academic Quiz Bowl Tournament
\par Packet #6 by Iowa State University
\par 18-19 April 1997
\par 
\par Toss-Ups}
\par 
\par 1. This story takes place in the modern Tarrytown, NY.  A schoolmaster begins to court Katrina Van Tassel and insults the locals by scoffing 
at their folklore.  Another suitor, Brom Bones, disguises himself as a demonic apparition and rides down the schoolmaster at night.  FTP, name this legendary Washington Irving tale.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab \ldblquote The {\ul Legend of Sleepy Hollow}\rdblquote 
\par 
\par 2. Its power came from many sources:  Gregg Toland\rquote s new \ldblquote deep focus\rdblquote  lens which allowed both near and far action to be visible to the audience, Bernhard Herrmann\rquote 
s score, tricks borrowed from the stage like off-screen comments, the technical ability of the Mercury Theater players, and Mankiewicz\rquote s script including the \ldblquote Rosebud\rdblquote 
 quandary.  FTP, what is this revolutionary film of 1941 directed by Orson Welles?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\i\ul Citizen Kane}
\par 
\par 3. He is seen at his makeshift writing desk working on a document dated 13 July 1793 while recovering from his time in the sewers.  His right hand has drooped to the floor, but still holds a quill.  Near it, lies a bloody knife with which Charlotte Corday
 ended his life moments before.  FTP, who is this French revolutionary whose gruesome bathtub murder was captured for all time by Jacques-Louis David?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab Jean-Paul {\ul Marat}
\par 
\par 4. The first was written to criticize Robert Filmer\rquote s {\i Patriarcha}
 which justified the divine right of kings as a result of the descent from Adam.  The second outlines the true origin of government out of a happy state of nature; governments whose primary aim is the protection of personal property.  FTP, what are these 
1689 and 1690 works of political science by John Locke?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\i Two} {\i\ul Treatises on Government}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 5. In the negotiations there was 
heavy discussion of the problems caused by British efforts to suppress the slave trade, but no provisions came of it.  It did, however, call for mutual extradition of criminals and settled the boundary between Maine and Canada.  FTP, identify this 1842 tr
eaty named for the Secretary of State and British Lord who signed it.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Webster-Ashburton} Treaty
\par 
\par 6. They are masses of lymphoid cells embedded in fibrous connective tissue covered by a single layer epithelium.  The cells are phagocytic and destroy d
isease-producing bacteria.  They are easily infected by streptococcus bacteria, producing inflammation and pus formation.  For ten points, name these human cell masses ringing the walls of the pharynx which are often removed in children to avoid chronic i
nfection.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul tonsil}s
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 7. The Gate of the Sun marks the center of the downtown, with the old section lying to the southwest.  A huge 350 acre park called the Retiro lies in the southeast corner while the Salamanca residential district is in the northea
st.  The business district is north of Calle de Alcal\'e1.  FTP, name this city, home to the Prado and the National Library of Spain.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Madrid}
\par 
\par 8. Along with playing old phonographs, this collection is the primary focus of a crippled 24-year old girl.  She is shy and sees her leg brace like her collection\rquote 
s unicorn whose horn sets it apart from the other horses.  FTP, what is this group of fragile figures owned by Laura Wingfield, the title zoo of a Tennessee Williams play?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\i The }{\i\ul Glass Menagerie}
\par 
\par 9. Contemporaries gave Juan Sebasti\'e1
n del Cano all of the credit for the voyage, but the diarist Antonio Pigafetta praised the original captain and it is his views and writings that have come down to us.  This man was killed on Mactan in 1521, while engag
ing in a battle between rival Filipino tribes.  FTP, name this explorer who is generally credited (nonsensically) with being the first to circumnavigate the globe.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab Ferdinand {\ul Magellan} (1480? - 1521)
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\tx720 \f13 {\f4\fs20 10. She was the great-granddaughter of the first
 Roman emperor, the sister of the third emperor, the wife of the fourth emperor, and the mother of the fifth emperor.  For ten points, name this notorious woman who murdered her husband Claudius so that her son Nero could rule.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab }{\f4\fs20\ul Agrippina}{\f4\fs20  the Younger
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\tx720 \f4\fs20 
\par 11. The right to have an attorney present during interrogation.  The right to consult an attorney.  The fact that any statements can be given in evidence at a trial.  The right to remain silent.  Unless suspects are made aware of these facts, testimony
 given in custody is inadmissible at a trial.  FTP, what Arizona defendant lent his name to these \ldblquote rights\rdblquote  after the U.S. Supreme Court voided his conviction?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab Ernesto {\ul Miranda} (accept: {\ul Miranda} rights)
\par 
\par {\cchs256 12. }
 He had a partnership with his father selling a homemade aphrodisiac, but his dream job was always to work in a bowling alley.  He achieved that for about six months, but spent the rest of his time managing a country music singer, clowning, driving a mono
rail train, and, most famously, directing safety operations at a nuclear power plant.  FTP and a doughnut, identify this rotund father of Maggie, Lisa, and Bart.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Homer} Simpson 
\par {\cchs256 
\par 13. }The{\cchs256  14th day of Adar }is celebrated with the baking of three-cornered pastries called {\i hamantaschen}
.  The day commemorates the execution of the minister of King Ahasuerus who had plotted to slaughter the Jews in his realm.  The discovery of the plot was primarily the work of a Biblical heroine whose exploits are described in the book named for her.  FT
P, name this heroine or the Jewish holiday which celebrates her courage.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Esther} or {\ul Purim}
\par 
\par 14. Because all known interaction Hamiltonians are invariant with respect to spatial translation, that is, that physical forces depend on the distance between particles and not on absolute positions, Noether\rquote 
s theorem can be used to find a conserved quantity.  FTP, what conserved quantity is this that follows from the homogeneity of space?
\par 
\par Answer:\tab linear {\ul momentum}
\par 
\par 15. {\cchs256 In his retirement, he wrote about the astronomy of the ancient Hebrews in }{\i\cchs256 Astronomy in the Old Testament}{\cchs256 .} {\cchs256 
 He also calculated, in 1866, that meteor swarms were remnants of comets and incorrectly concluded that Mercury and Venus had identical periods of rotation and revoluti}on{\cchs256  and thus always had the same side to the Sun. } {\cchs256 
FTP, name this astronomer whose most famous }erroneous {\cchs256 discovery was that of the }\ldblquote {\cchs256 canals}\rdblquote {\cchs256  of Mars.
\par }
\par Answer:\tab {\cchs256 Giovanni Virginio }{\ul\cchs256 Schiaparelli}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }16. He is not Hamlet, but rather \ldblquote an attendant lord,\rdblquote  \ldblquote deferential, glad to be of use.\rdblquote   He does not k
now how to say what he means, wonders whether he dare disturb the universe, and watches the women come and go as they discuss Michelangelo.  FTP, name this vacillating hero to whom mermaids will not sing, but in whose honor T.S. Eliot wrote a love song.

\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul J. Alfred Prufrock
\par 
\par }17. This{\cchs256  conference dealt largely with military issues: the invasion of Sicily, apportionment of forces in Asia, and nuclear research.  It was later criticized because it called for the }\ldblquote {\cchs256 unconditional}\rdblquote {\cchs256 
 surrenders of Germany, Italy, and Japan. } {\cchs256 FTP, name this }January, 1943 {\cchs256 conference attended by Roosevelt and Churchill}, but not Humphrey Bogart,{\cchs256  in Morocco.
\par }
\par Answer:\tab {\ul\cchs256 Casablanca}{\cchs256  Conference
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0 {\lang1024 
18. It resists seawater corrosion and rust as well as platinum and better than stainless steel.  In 1791, it was discovered by William Gregor who was interested in mineralogy, while Martin Klaproth named it in 1795.  With an atomic number of 22, its first
 commercial use was as an oxide to replace lead in paints, while the military would use this metal in aircraft and jet engines.  For ten points, name this element with the chemical symbol Ti.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab }{\ul\lang1024 Titanium}{\lang1024 
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx720 19. {\cchs256 He }based {\cchs256 his theory of epic theater }on{\cchs256  the Marxist belief that human nature is a result of changing historical conditions.} {\cchs256 
 To this end, his plays attempt to distance the audience from the characters on stage and to make them think objectively about them. } {\cchs256 FTP, name this }German {\cchs256 playwright of }{\i Galileo}{\cchs256  and }{\i\cchs256 
The Caucasian Chalk Circle}{\cchs256 .
\par }
\par Answer:\tab {\cchs256 Bertolt }{\ul B}{\ul\cchs256 recht}{\cchs256 
\par 
\par }20. The composer agreed to have the
 Star of Bethlehem appear in the closing scene so that the authorities would allow the opera to be shown in Berlin.  The star appears just as the title character is crushed beneath the shields of the palace guard, a fitting end for a girl who danced in or
der to receive the head of John the Baptist.  FTP, name this Richard Strauss opera set in the castle of King Herod.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab {\i\ul Salom\'e9}
\par 
\par {\b 
\par \page Les Enfants Terribles
\par Academic Quiz Bowl Tournament
\par Packet #6 by Iowa State University
\par 18-19 April 1997
\par 
\par Bonuses}
\par 
\par 1. Answer the following questions about the short-lived African republic of Biafra for ten points apiece.
\par a. From which country did Biafra break away only to be recaptured three years later?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Nigeria}
\par b. Name any year during which the Republic existed.
\par Answer:\tab 1967-1970
\par c. Biafra seceded primarily because of the discovery of oil at Port Harcourt, but it also served the nationalist aims of its majority people.  What tribe is that?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Ibo}
\par 
\par {\cchs256 2. Identify a painting with each of the following pictorial elements for ten points each.
\par }a{\cchs256 . A young boy in a vest with two pistols, one pointing up and one pointing down.
\par Answer:\tab Eugene Delacroix}\rquote {\cchs256 s }{\i\ul\cchs256 Liberty Leading the People}{\cchs256 
\par }b{\cchs256 . A man garbed in dark rectang}l{\cchs256 es on gold and a woman garbed in colorful circles on gold.
\par Answer:\tab Gustav Klimt}\rquote {\cchs256 s }{\i\cchs256 The }{\i\ul\cchs256 Kiss}{\cchs256 
\par }c{\cchs256 . Two airplanes; one exploding, one missile track visible.
\par Answer:\tab Roy Lichtenstein}\rquote {\cchs256 s }{\i\ul\cchs256 Whaam}{\cchs256 !
\par }
\par 3. {\cchs256 Given the famous spear, identify its owner for ten points each.
\par }a{\cchs256 . Pelian ash spear
\par }Answer:\tab {\ul\cchs256 Achilleus}{\cchs256  (}{\ul\cchs256 Achilles}{\cchs256 )
\par }b{\cchs256 . Rhongomyant [RON-gome-yant]
\par }Answer:\tab {\cchs256 King }{\ul\cchs256 Arthur}{\cchs256  of the Britons
\par }c{\cchs256 . Gungnir
\par }Answer:\tab {\ul\cchs256 Odin}{\cchs256  (}{\ul\cchs256 Wodin}{\cchs256 )
\par }
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 4. Recently the International Olympic Committee narrowed the list of
\par potential sites for the 2004 Summer Olympics to five.  For five points each, and a five point bonus for all five, name these five cities, three in Europe and once each in Africa and South America.
\par 
\par Answer:  {\ul Athens}, Greece;
\par \tab {\ul Buenos Aires}, Argentina;
\par \tab {\ul Cape Town}, South Africa;
\par \tab {\ul Rome}, Italy;
\par \tab {\ul Stockholm}, Sweden
\par 
\par 5. Answer the following questions about a certain paramilitary group for ten points apiece.
\par a. It was formed in 1921 to provide security for Nazi meetings and harass other political parties; its members were known as \ldblquote brownshirts.\rdblquote 
\par Answer:\tab {\ul sturmabteilung} ({\ul SA})
\par Prompt:\tab {\ul stormtroopers}
\par b. He became Chief of Staff of the SA in 1931 and enlarged the organization to over four million members.
\par Answer:\tab Ernst {\ul R\'f6hm}
\par c. Rohm and most of his lieutenants were killed during this June 30, 1934, purge to appease the SS.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Night of the Long Knives}
\par 
\par 6. The moderator will play three excerpts from pieces of baroque music.  Identify the composer of each for ten points apiece.
\par 
\par Answer:\tab 1. {\ul J}ohann {\ul S}ebastian {\ul Bach}
\par \tab 2. Antonio {\ul Vivaldi}
\par \tab 3. Georg Friedrich {\ul Handel}
\par 
\par 7. Two one-ohm resistors are linked in series with a six-volt battery.  Answer the following questions about this setup for ten points apiece.
\par a. A voltmeter is connected in series between the two resistors.  What does it read?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul 6} volts
\par b. An ammeter is connected in series between the two resistors.  What does it read?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul 3} amperes
\par c. An ammeter is connected in parallel around the first resistor.  What does it read?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul 6} amperes
\par 
\par 8. Identify the following dramatic title characters for ten points apiece.
\par a. He is a foxy old man who schemes to embarrass and defraud those who are jousting among themselves to become his heir.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Volpone}
\par b. He is a Venetian military commander who is transferred to Cyprus.  His first act is to choose a new lieutenant.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Othello}, the Moor of Venice
\par c. He is a prosperous banker on whom God, in the form of Zuss, turns.  His children die in various accidents, crimes, and wars, but he never loses faith.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul J.B.}
\par 
\par 9. Answer the following questions about the great Indian epic poem, the {\i Mahabharata} for ten points apiece.
\par a. The narrative portion of the poem concerns the struggle between two sides of the same family.  Name either.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Pandavas} or {\ul Kauravas}
\par b. The most famous section of the poem concerns advice given to a member of the Pandava family by an avatar of Vishnu.  For ten points apiece, name this section of the poem and the man who receives the advice.
\par Answer:\tab {\i\ul Bhagavad Gita} ({\i\ul Song of God}); {\ul Arjuna}
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 10. Identify the following chemical laws for ten points apiece.
\par a. The rates of diffusion of two gases are inversely proportional to
\par the square roots of their densities.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Graham\rquote s} Law
\par b. The total pressure in a mixture of gases is the sum of the
\par individual partial pressures.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Dalton\rquote s} Law
\par c. Gases react with one another in small, whole-numbered ratios by
\par volume if the volumes are measured at the same temperature and pressure.
\par Answer:\tab Gay-Lussac\rquote s Law
\par 
\par 11. For ten points apiece, identify the tribe of each of the following famous Native Americans.
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 a. Chief Joseph?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Nez Perce}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 b. Sequoiah
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Cherokee}
\par c. Crazy Horse
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Sioux}
\par 
\par 12. Identify the Robert Frost poem from lines for ten points each.
\par a.  The bird would cease and be as other birds / But that he knows in singing not to sing. / The question that he frames in all but words / Is what to make of a diminishing thing.
\par Answer:\tab {\i The }{\i\ul Oven Bird}
\par b.  My apples trees will never get across / and eat the cones under his pines, I tell him. / He only says, \ldblquote Good fences make good neighbors.\rdblquote 
\par Answer:\tab {\i\ul Mending Wall}
\par c.  To the land vaguely realizing westward/But still unstoried, artless, unenhanced, / Such as she was, such as she was to become.
\par Answer:\tab {\i The }{\i\ul Gift Outright}{\i   }{\i\ul 
\par 
\par }13. Answer the following questions about a famous anthropologist for ten points apiece.
\par a. Name the long-time professor of anthropology at the London School of Economics whose works include {\i Magic, Science, and Religion} and \ldblquote Myth in Primitive Psychology.\rdblquote 
\par Answer:\tab Bronislaw {\ul Malinowski}
\par b. Malinowski is most famous for his work with the natives of a group of islands which are part of Papua New Guinea.  Name those islands.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Trobriand} Islands
\par c. Of what school of anthropology, generally aligned against structuralism, was Malinowski a founding member?
\par Answer:\tab {\ul functionalism}
\par 
\par 14. Identify the following scientists important in the development of modern evolutionary biology for ten points apiece.
\par a. This American biologist, while working with fruit flies, discovered that genes were carried by chromosomes.
\par Answer:\tab Thomas Hunt {\ul Morgan}
\par b. This Dutch biologist was the first to observe and study genetic mutations.
\par Answer:\tab Hugo {\ul de Vries}
\par c. The modern \ldblquote synthetic\rdblquote  theory which harmonized genetics and evolution is generally attributed to three biologists, two Americans and one Briton.  Name any of them.
\par Answer:\tab Theodosius {\ul Dobzhansky}, Ernst {\ul Mayr}, or Julian {\ul Huxley}
\par 
\par 15. Identify the following senators from Maine for ten points apiece.
\par a.  This recently deceased Democrat was the 1968 vice presidential nominee and, later, Carter\rquote s Secretary of State.
\par Answer:\tab Edward S. {\ul Muskie}
\par b.  She was the first female Senator elected in her own right; this Republican was also famed for denouncing McCarthy.
\par Answer:\tab Margaret {\ul Chase Smith} (prompt on Smith)
\par c. This recently retired Democrat had been the Senate Majority leader.
\par Answer:\tab George {\ul Mitchell}
\par 
\par 16. Name the Dickens novel from a short list of lesser-known characters for
\par ten points each or for five points if you need some better-known ones.
\par a. (10) Dr. Alexander Manette, Lucie Manette, Stryver
\par a. (5) Sydney Carton, Madame Defarge, Charles Darnay
\par Answer:\tab {\i A }{\i\ul Tale of Two Cities}
\par b. (10) Barkis, the Peggotty family, Agnes Wickfield
\par b. (5) Mr. Micawber, Betsey Trotwood, Uriah Heep
\par Answer:\tab {\i\ul David Copperfield}
\par c. (10) Mr. Bumble, Bill Sikes, Monks, Mr. Brownlow
\par c. (5) Fagin, Jack Dawkins
\par Answer:\tab {\i\ul Oliver Twist}
\par 
\par 17. For the stated number of points, in which American city would you find each of the following urban renewal areas?
\par a. (5) Ghiradelli Square
\par Answer:\tab {\ul San Francisco}, CA{\ul 
\par }b. (10) Battery Park
\par Answer:\tab {\ul New York} City, NY
\par c. (5) Faneuil Hall and Quincy Market
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Boston}, MA
\par d. (10) The Inner Harbor
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Baltimore}, MD
\par 
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720\tx1080 18. Answer the following questions about America\rquote s biggest corporations.
\par a. In the latest \ldblquote Fortune\rdblquote  magazine, two companies switched positions as #1 in terms of employees worldwide.  For five points each, name these two companies.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Wal-Mart} overtook {\ul General Motors} ({\ul GM})
\par b. Wal-Mart and GM occupy 2 of the top 6 places in the Fortune 500, which list companies by revenue.  For five points each, name the other 4 companies in the top six.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul Ford} Motor Co., {\ul Exxon}, {\ul General Electric} ({\ul GE}), {\ul International Business Machines} ({\ul IBM})
\par 
\par 19. Identify the following medical terms for ten points apiece.
\par a. It is the diagnosis and treatment of ear, nose, and throat diseases.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul otolaryngology}
\par b. This is the primary device used to examine the ears, nose, and throat.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul otoscope}
\par c.  This is the name given to the constant ringing in the ears.
\par Answer:\tab {\ul tinnitus}
\par \pard \widctlpar\tx720 {\b 
\par }20. Answer the following questions about magnetism, for ten points apiece.
\par a.  According to Gauss\rquote  Magnetic Law, this phenomena cannot exist.
\par Answer:\tab magnetic {\ul monopole}
\par b.  In 1820, this Dutch scientist discovered that an electric current would deflect a compass needle, the fixed ever link between electricity and magnetism.
\par Answer:\tab Hans Christian {\ul Oersted}
\par c. This English electrician built the first electromagnet in 1825.
\par Answer:\tab William {\ul Sturgeon
\par }
\par }