{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f123\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f124\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f126\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f127\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f128\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f135\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f136\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f138\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f139\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f140\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title Cavalier Classic 1996}{\author Jason Hong}
{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min34}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min34}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords2130}{\nofchars12146}{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws14916}{\vern71}}
\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale110\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0 Cavalier Classic 1996
\par Round 2
\par 
\par 1.  Ruling in the 14th century B.C., this pharoah began his reign as Amenhotep IV, but he later changed his name to reflect the monotheistic sun-god religion he tried to impose on Egyptian society.  FTP, name this husband of Nefertiti and father-in-law of

\par  Tutankhamen, whose name is derived from that of the sun-disk he worshipped, Aton.
\par \tab Answer: _Akhenaton_
\par 
\par 2.  He served in the merchant marines and in the Army during the Vietnam War, receiving the Bronze Star and Purple Heart.  In 1974, he made his directorial debut with Seizure, while his acting debut came seven years later in 
The Hand, which he also wrote. FTP, identify this former New York taxi driver, who has received Oscars for his adapted screenplay for Midnight Express and for directing Platoon and Born on the Fourth of July.
\par \tab Answer: Oliver _Stone_
\par 
\par 3.  Most of this country's cities, including Mopti, Segou, Djenne, and Gao, lie along the Bani and Niger rivers.  A landlocked nation, it is bordered by Senegal, Guinea, the Ivory Coast, Burkina Faso, Niger, Algeria, and Mauritania.  FTP, name this countr
y, whose better known cities include Timbuktu and the capital, Bamako.
\par \tab Answer: _Mali_
\par 
\par 4.  Last year, in a loss to Oklahoma, he became the first sophomore in major college history to rush for 1000 yards in five games. In another loss to Missouri, he became only the fifth college player in history to rush for 2000 yards in a season, and the 
first to do so without winning the Heisman trophy in the same season. FTP, name this Iowa state tailback.
\par \tab Answer: Troy _Davis_
\par 
\par 5.  An orphan, she was adopted by her uncle, who had once saved the Persian king from assassins.  Married to King Ahasuerus, she revealed her Jewish identity to protect Mordecai and the other Jews of the kingdom from the intrigues of Haman.  FTP, name thi
s Old Testament heroine, whose story is told in the only book of the Bible which does not mention God, and which is named for her.
\par \tab Answer: _Esther_
\par 
\par 6.  He was the first black man admitted to the Florida state bar after the Civil War, and he later served as US consul in Nicaragua and Venezuela.  His poetry is collected in Saint Peter Relates an Incident at the Resurrection Day, Fifty Years, and God's 
Trombones.  FTP, identify this author of Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man, best remembered for his spiritual "Lift Every Voice and Sing."
\par \tab Answer: James Weldon _Johnson_
\par 
\par 7.  Within its confines, carbohydrate groups are modified, and secretory proteins are glycosylated and cut by proteases. First described by an Italian cytologist in 1898, it has a polarized structure composed of five to eight flattened, disk-shaped cister
nae, or vesicles, arranged in a stack. FTP, name this apparatus, the principal director of protein traffic in the cell.
\par \tab Answer: _Golgi_ apparatus
\par 
\par 8.  Its divisions include the Economic Regulatory Administration and the Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management.  Designed to coordinate national fuel and electricity policies, this cabinet department also conducts research into the conservation

\par of these resources.  FTP, name this department, whose first secretary, James Schlesinger, took office in 1977, and which is now headed by Hazel O'Leary.
\par \tab Answer:  Department of _Energy_
\par 
\par 9.  His early works include the Brussels Crucifixion, the Cure for Madness and Christ Mocked.  Born around 1450, it has been claimed that his pictures were done for a heretical, orgiastic cult; however, most were owned by devout Catholics like Philip II.
 FTP, name this allegorical painter of Hay Wain, Ship of Fools, Seven Deadly Sins, and The Garden of Earthly Delights.
\par \tab Answer: Hieronymous _Bosch_
\par 
\par 10.  The states of Colorado, Hawaii, Texas, and Maryland have had their history documented in this man's works.  Although he didn't publish his first novel until the age of forty, Tales of the South Pacific won him the Pulitzer Prize.  FTP, identify this 
author, best known for long sagas like Poland, Space, and The Source.
\par \tab Answer: James _Michener_
\par 
\par 11.  Robert Ley committed suicide, Martin Bormann disappeared, and Gustav Krupp was found to be too old.  Although Hjalmar Scahcht, Hans Fritsche, and Franz von Papen were acquitted, October 16, 1946 saw 10 men hanged, including Arthur Seyss-Inquart, Juli
us Streicher, and Alfred Jodl.  FTP, identify this tribunal, at which Robert Jackson was prosecutor, during which 24 chief Nazis were tried for war crimes.
\par \tab Answer: _Nuremburg_
\par 
\par 12.  This man discovered the 5th star in the constellation Orion and first suggested that Jupiter rotates on its axis.  His discovery that the stretching of a solid body is proportional to the force applied to it formed the basis of later studies of physi
cal stress.  FTP, name this English scientist, whose 1665 work Micrographia introduced the term "cell" to describe microscopic cavities in cork.
\par \tab Answer:  Robert _Hooke_
\par 
\par 13.  With more than 40 million albums sold, he is the best-selling instrumentalist ever.  Despite being routinely panned by critics, his albums including \'f1Breathless\'ee and \'f1Miracles: the Holiday Album\'ee have won Grammys and set sales re
cords. Named jazz artist of the decade by Billboard magazine, he has just released a new album, The Moment.  FTP, name this pop saxophonist.
\par \tab Answer: Kenny _G_
\par 
\par 14.  It was left unfinished in 19 B.C., and survived despite the poet's request for it to be burned.  After the wanderings of the first half, Book Seven features the rivalry over Lavinia between Turnus and the protagonist, a refugee from Troy.  FTP, ident
ify this epic in twelve books, describing the origins of the Roman people and written by Virgil.
\par \tab Answer: _Aeneid_
\par 
\par 15.  FAQTP, what is the sum of the alternating harmonic series, whose nth term equals negative one to the nth power times one over n?
\par \tab Answer: _ln 2_ or the _natural logarithm of 2_
\par 
\par 16.  In 1943, this man seized dictatorial power with the help of his descamisados, or "shirtless ones".  Deposed by a coup in 1955, he returned in 1973, died the next year, and was succeeded by his third wife.  It is his second wife, however, who is most 
famous in the United States and will be played by Madonna in an upcoming film.  FTP, name this former president of Argentina.
\par \tab Answer: Juan _Peron_
\par 
\par 17.  There are three kinds of these, each associated with a charged lepton.  Proposed by Pauli to explain anomalies in beta decay, these neutral and almost if not completely massless particles can pass through matter with lit
tle resistance.  FTP, identify these particles which have been suggested as a possible constituent of dark matter and whose name means "little neutral ones."
\par \tab Answer: _neutrino_
\par 
\par 18.  After graduating from Trinity College, he worked as editor of The Penny Press and as drama critic for the Dublin Mail.  After coming to London as Sir Henry Irving's personal manager, he published The Duties of Clerks of Petty Session in Ireland.  FTP
, identify this author, who went on to publish 15 works of fiction, the most famous of which is the tale of John Seward, Mina Murray, Jonathan Harker, and Count Dracula.
\par \tab Answer: Bram _Stoker_
\par 
\par 19.  Although now a marshy plain, the area once consisted of a mountain pass between Mount Oeta and the Maliac Gulf.  Its name derives from the Greek for "Hot Gates" and refers to the hot springs found in the area.  Its fame results from 
the heroic defense of that pass by Greek troops under Leonidas in 480 BC.  FTP, name the area and you'll name the famed pass.
\par \tab Answer:  _Thermopylae_
\par 
\par 20.  His books include The Nature of Mass Poverty, The New Industrial State, and Economics and the Public Purpose.  He served as ambassador to India under John F. Kennedy, and much of his work deals with the poverty in the Third World.  FTP, name this Can
adian-born economist, best known for his 1958 classic, The Affluent Society.
\par \tab Answer: John Kenneth _Galbraith_
\par 
\par \page Boni for round two :
\par 
\par 1.  FTP each, give the names of the geologic era, period, and epoch, respectively, which include the present day.
\par 
\par Answers : _Cenozoic_; _Quaternary_; _Holocene_
\par 
\par 2.  Identify the chemists for the stated number of points.
\par 5.  In 1869, he published his first periodic table.
\par 10.  This Frenchman stated the law of conservation of matter in 1789.
\par 15.  In 1908, this German invented a cheap mechanism for manufacturing ammonia.
\par 
\par Answers : Dmitri _Mendeleyev_; Antoine _Lavoisier_; Fritz               _Haber_
\par 
\par 3.  For 15 points each, answer these math questions.
\par a) What is the value of the quantity 1+i raised to the eighth power, where i squared equals negative one?
\par b) If a convex pentagon has two interior angles measuring 100 degrees and two more measuring 110 degrees, what is the degree measure of the fifth interior angle?
\par 
\par Answers : _16_; _120_ degrees
\par 
\par 4.  FTP each, answer these questions about the Spanish Inquisition.
\par a)      The Inquisition was established by Ferdinand and Isabella with the reluctant consent of this Pope.
\par b)      This Dominican monk was the first and most famous Inquisitor-General.
\par c)      Penalties were announced at these solemn public gatherings, whose name is Portuguese for \'f1act of faith\'ee.
\par 
\par Answers : _Sixtus IV_; Tomas de _Torquemada_; _Auto da fe_
\par 
\par 5.  FTP each, give these names for the apocalypse.
\par a)  In Scandinavian mythology, this is the Twilight of the Gods, when there will be a final battle between evil and good gods in which all will be slaughtered.
\par b) The German translation of Ragnarok, it is the title of the fourth work in Wagner\'cds Ring cycle.
\par c)      This Hebrew word supposedly refers to a plain in northern Israel which was the site of many historic battles. It is the site where the kings of the earth, under demonic leadership, will wage war against the forces of God.
\par 
\par Answers : _Ragnarok_; _Gotterdammerung_; _Armageddon_
\par 
\par 6.  Given a Pulitzer Prize winner in fiction, name its author, for the stated number of points.
\par 5.  Beloved
\par 10.  Breathing Lessons
\par 15.  A Summons to Memphis
\par 
\par Answers : Toni _Morrison_; Anne _Tyler_; Peter _Taylor_
\par 
\par 7.  Count to 3 in each of the following languages for the stated number of points (one, two and three must all be correct for any points).
\par 5. French
\par 10. German
\par 15. Japanese
\par 
\par Answers : _Un, Deux, Trois_; _Ein, Zwei, Drei_;
\par              _Ichi, Ni, San_
\par 
\par 8.  Given the way he gained power, identify the Roman emperor FTP each.
\par a)  He took power in 98 as Nerva's adopted son.
\par b)  He was adopted by Antoninus Pius and ruled along with Lucius Verus.
\par c)  He took power in 54 after his stepfather, Claudius, died.
\par 
\par Answers : _Trajan_; _Marcus Aurelius_; _Nero_
\par 
\par 9.  Identify the following moons of Jupiter FTP each.
\par a)  The largest of Jupiter's moons, its dark areas resemble the seas of Earth's moon.
\par b)  The outermost of the Galilean satellites, it is also the darkest of them.
\par c)  The smallest Galilean satellite, it has been shown to bear canals which may signify the presence of water.
\par 
\par Answers : _Ganymede_; _Callisto_; _Europa_
\par 
\par 10.  Identify the W initialed novelists from works on a 10-5 basis.
\par 10.  Heaven's My Destination
\par 5.  The Bridge of San Luis Rey
\par 10.  The House of Mirth
\par 5.  The Age of Innocence
\par 10.  The History of Mr. Polly
\par 5.  The War of the Worlds
\par 
\par Answers : Thornton _Wilder_; Edith _Wharton_; H. G. _Wells_
\par 
\par 11.  FTP each, given an English monarch, name the house to which he or she belonged.
\par a) Henry I
\par b) Edward IV
\par c) Charles I
\par 
\par Answers : _Normandy_; _York_; _Stuart_
\par 
\par 12.  Answer these questions about the 1996 Nobel Peace Prize FTP each :
\par a) The two recipients are part of the independence movement in this former Portuguese colony, an island occupied by Indonesia since 1975.
\par b) Name the two honorees, one of whom is East Timor's Roman Catholic bishop, and the other of whom is an exiled guerilla spokesman for the island's guerilla movement.
\par 
\par Answers : _East Timor_; Carlos Felipe Ximenes _Belo_; Jose                   _Ramos-Horta_
\par 
\par 13.  Given a country album, identify the artist responsible for it, for five points each and a five point bonus for all correct.
\par a)  What Do I Do With Me
\par b)  When I Call Your Name
\par c)  Killin' Time
\par d)  Wait for the Light to Shine
\par e)  Red-Headed Stranger
\par 
\par Answers : Tanya _Tucker_; Vince _Gill_; Clint _Black_; Hank             _Williams_ Sr.; Willie _Nelson_
\par 
\par 14.  Identify the following composers whose last names begin with the letter R, for the stated number of points.
\par 5.  He wrote numerous operas, including The Barber of Seville and William Tell.
\par 10.  This composer of Daphnis and Chloe is best known for Bolero.
\par 15.  In addition to four piano concerti, he wrote The Isle of the Dead and Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini.
\par 
\par Answers : Gioacchino _Rossini_; Maurice _Ravel_; Sergei              _Rachmaninoff_
\par 
\par 15.  Name the playwright from works, 30-20-10.
\par 30.  Love's Comedy and The Lady from the Sea
\par 20.  The League of Youth and When We Dead Awaken
\par 10.  The Wild Duck and A Doll's House
\par 
\par \tab Answer: Henrik _Ibsen_
\par 
\par 16.  Given a currency, name ths capital of the country that uses it, FTP each.
\par a)  the taka
\par b)  the drachma
\par c)  the balboa
\par 
\par Answers : _Dhaka_; _Athens_; _Panama_ City
\par 
\par 17.  Since Virginia's own John Marshall served as Chief Justice from 1801 to 1835, nine other states have produced Chief Justices of the Supreme Court.  FFP each, identify any six of those nine states.
\par 
\par Answers : _Maryland_; _Ohio_; _Illinois_; _Louisiana_;
\par              _Connecticut_; _New York_; _Kentucky_;
\par              _California_; _Arizona_
\par 
\par 18.  Identify the religions which celebrate the following holidays, FTP each.
\par a)  Holi and Ramanavami
\par b)  Tisha b'Av and Asara b'Tevet
\par c)  Ohinamatsuri and Tango no Sekku
\par 
\par Answers : _Hinduism_; _Judaism_; _Shinto_
\par 
\par 19.  Identify the following international alliances from descriptions, for the stated number of points.
\par 5.  It was created in 1960 to protect the interests of oil producing nations.
\par 10.  Lasting from 1955 to 1991, it was a military alliance of Eastern European nations.
\par 15. Founded in 1963, it is dedicated to wiping out colonialism in Africa.
\par 
\par Answers : _OPEC_ (or _Organization of Petroleum Exporting                    Countries_); _Warsaw Pact_; _OAU_ (_Organization of             African Unity_);
\par 
\par 20.  Identify the hosts of the following game shows, FTP each.  If you need a second clue, you will only receive five points.
\par 10.  Liar's Club
\par 5.  He was better known as the host of the Twilight Zone.
\par 10.  Who Do You Trust? and Earn Your Vacation
\par 5.  You know him better as the long time host of the Tonight Show.
\par 10.  Who's the Boss?, The Big Surprise, and Guess Again
\par 5.  He was later seen on 60 Minutes.
\par 
\par Answers : Rod _Serling_; Johnny _Carson_; Mike _Wallace_
\par }}