{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f123\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f124\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f126\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f127\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f128\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f135\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f136\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f138\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f139\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f140\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title Cavalier Classic 1996}{\author Jason Hong}
{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min32}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min32}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords1987}{\nofchars11328}{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws13911}{\vern71}}
\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale110\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0 Cavalier Classic 1996
\par Round 3
\par 
\par 1.  His first speech in Parliament was a passionate defense of workers who wrecked machinery that threatened their jobs.  Public scandals, including an alleged affair with his half-sister Augusta Leigh, drove him from England in 1816.  FTP, name this writ
er of Childe Harold's Pilgrimage, "She Walks in Beauty," and Don Juan (Don JEW-an).
\par \tab Answer: George Gordon, Lord _Byron_
\par 
\par 2.  The Eddas describe him as beautiful, but he appears to have be related to the dwarfs, and he often acted as an agent for them with the Aesir.  The husband of Sigyn, it was probably in his capacity of fire god that he destroyed the hair of Sif.  FTP, i
dentify this Norse deity, the father of Fenrir and Hel who is best known as the trickster god.
\par \tab Answer: _Loki_
\par 
\par 3.  Their name came from a legendary Irish heroine, and they sometimes dressed as women to surprise their enemies.  In 1877, ten of them were executed for murder during labor conflicts in Pennsylvania.  FTP, identify this secret society, usually consistin
g of Irish immigrants, which represented the interests of poor coal miners.
\par \tab Answer:  _Molly Maguires_
\par 
\par 4.  A nonmetallic, nearly black crystalline solid used in medicine, dye manufacture and photography, this element sublimes to a deep violet vapor at room temperature.  Never found uncombined in nature, it has been extracted from saltpeter deposits and, mo
re recently, seaweed.  FTP, name this halogen, a common antiseptic with atomic number 53.
\par \tab Answer: _Iodine_
\par 
\par 5.  From 1899 to 1930, he made five unsuccessful attempts to win the America's Cup.  In 1871 he opened the first of his grocery stores in Scotland.  In 1890 he entered the tea business, establishing a brand that bears his name.  FTP, name this merchant.

\par \tab Answer:  Sir Thomas _Lipton_
\par 
\par 6.  She was not actually a princess, since status in her society was transmitted through the mother, and her father reportedly had over 100 children.  When she was kidnapped in 1612, he refused to pay the ransom.  Instead, she became a Christian, changed 
her name to Rebecca, and married an Englishman.  FTP, name this wife of John Rolfe, subject of a recent Disney film.
\par \tab Answer: _Pocahontas_ or _Matoaka_
\par 
\par 7.  He dates the superficial Sally Hayes but is most attracted to Jane Gallagher, whom he believes has been seduced by his macho roommate, Stradlater.  Haunted by the memory of a schoolmate's suicide and his brother Allie's death, he seeks redemption in t
he innocence of his young sister Phoebe.  FTP, name this hater of phonies, the main character of J. D. Salinger's Catcher in the Rye.
\par \tab Answer: Holden _Caulfield_
\par 
\par 8.  This organization began in the late 12th century with its headquarters in Visby, Sweden, and its last meeting occurred in Lubeck in 1669. At its height in the late 14th century, it included over 160 cities and towns, including Novgorod, Krakow, and Ha
mburg.  FTP, name this league of Northern European traders.
\par \tab Answer: _Hanseatic_ League
\par 
\par 9.  Composed in part of Merkel cells, this organ is associated with diseases like discoid lupus erythematosus and impetigo.  Its two sections are linked by papilli, and are composed also of keratinocytes, elastic fibres, and collagen.  FTP, name this larg
est organ of the body, consisting of the dermis and epidermis.
\par \tab Answer: _skin_
\par 
\par 10.  Under the Waitangi Treaty of 1840, this people surrendered their land to the British Empire.  In the 1990s, they challenged the treaty, claiming 70% of their nation's land and exclusive fishing rights in its northern waters.  FTP, name this Polynesia
n people which today forms about 10 percent of New Zealand's population.
\par \tab Answer: _Maori_
\par 
\par 11.  He is a crippled beggar and gambler, she is his drug-addicted mistress.  The two of them live in Charleston, South Carolina on Catfish Row.  FTP, identify this pair, featured in a novel by DuBose Heyward and a George Gershwin opera known for such son
gs as "Summertime".
\par \tab Answer: _Porgy and Bess_
\par 
\par 12.  Born in Glasgow, he became president of the British Association for the Advancement of Science in 1911.  Along with Rayleigh, he isolated argon in 1894.  He went on to discover other noble gases such as helium, neon, krypton, and xenon.  FTP, name th
is scientist, winner of the 1904 Nobel Prize in chemistry.
\par \tab Answer:  William _Ramsay_
\par 
\par 13.  He played a suicidal Congressman with an overbearing wife in the short lived series The Powers That Be, Meg Ryan's brother in Sleepless in Seattle, and Watergate conspirator John Dean in Nixon.  His current character was created when an agent observe
d his striking resemblance to Kelsey Grammer.  FTP, name the actor who plays Dr. Niles Crane on Frasier.
\par \tab Answer: David Hyde _Pierce_
\par 
\par 14.  Taken into service by a wealthy family she first has an affair with their oldest son and then marries his brother.  When he dies, she abandons her children, moves to London, and goes through a series of men before being transported to Virginia.  FTP,
 name this heroine, born in Newgate prison and featured in a Daniel Defoe novel and a 1996 film of the same name.
\par \tab Answer: _Moll Flanders_
\par 
\par 15.  Great Britain's third-largest political party is fairly moderate; the Russian party led by Vladimir Zhirinovsky is heavily right-wing and xenophobic; Japan's dominant party since World War II has been plagued by corruption.  FTP, what two-word phrase
, common to the English names of all of these very different parties, did American Republicans of the 1980s frequently use to insult their opponents?
\par \tab Answer: _Liberal Democratic_ or _Liberal Democrats_
\par 
\par 16.  He was the son-in-law of Servius Tullius, whom he murdered to gain the throne.  Following the disgrace of his son Sextus, he was overthrown in 510 B.C.  Although he made several efforts to regain power, he could never capture Rome again.  FTP, name t
his last Roman king.
\par \tab Answer:  Lucius _Tarquinius Superbus_ (the Proud)
\par 
\par 17.  Pencil and paper ready.  Jamie can answer ten tedious math questions every thirty minutes.  Christie can answer fifteen such questions in the same time, but Mike would take an hour and a half to answer that many.  Now, if Jamie, Christie, and Mike sp
lit the work on a set of sixty questions, how long, FTP, should it take them to finish?
\par \tab Answer: _one hour_
\par 
\par 18.  In 1880 he married a divorced American and honeymooned at an abandoned silver mine in California.  In 1888 he went to the South Seas and died 6 years later in Samoa.  It was on Samoa that he wrote Catriona, a sequel to Kidnapped.  FTP, name this auth
or of Treasure Island and The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.
\par \tab Answer:  R. L. _Stevenson_
\par 
\par 19.  It was founded by Vikings around the year 900 and is located at the mouth of the River Shanon.  With a population of 56,000, it is the third largest city in the Republic of Ireland.  FTP, identify this city, which in the 19th century gave its name to
 a form of humerous verse.
\par \tab Answer:  _Limerick_
\par 
\par 20.  Some of his plays are The Condemned of Altona, The Devil and the Good Lord, and The Respectful Prostitute.  Born in 1905, his novels, such as Troubled Sleep and Nausea, reflect the philosophical analysis contained in his massive treatise, Being and N
othingness.  FTP, name this French existentialist, the long time lover of Simone de Beauvoir best known for No Exit.
\par \tab Answer: Jean-Paul _Sartre_
\par 
\par \page Boni for round three :
\par 
\par 1.  Identify the biologists, FTP each.
\par a)  This Dutch scientist discovered microorganisms with his microscope.
\par b)  He introduced the modern system of classification in 1735.
\par c)  His theory of dominant and recessive genes was published to little notice in 1865.
\par 
\par Answers : Anton van _Leeuwenhoek_; Carolus _Linnaeus_; Gregor           _Mendel_
\par 
\par 2.  Name these historical and literary practitioners of passive resistance FTP each.
\par a) Rather than flattering her father, King Lear, she responded to his love test by saying "Nothing".
\par b) This Lord Chancellor of England refused to express any opinion about Henry the Eighth's divorce from Catherine of Aragon.  The king denied his right to remain silent and had him executed.
\par c) A clerical worker on Wall Street, this Melville anti-hero responded to all orders by saying, "I would prefer not to."
\par 
\par \tab Answer: _Cordelia_; Sir Thomas _More_; _Bartleby_ the Scrivener
\par 
\par 3.  Name the countries where the following monarchs reign FTP each.
\par a) Carl XVI Gustaf
\par b) Beatrix Wilhelmina
\par c) Hassan II
\par 
\par Answers: _Sweden_; _Netherlands_; _Morocco_
\par 
\par 4.  For five points each and a five point bonus for all correct, give the SI unit for the following quantities:
\par a)      Power
\par b)      Current
\par c)      Capacitance
\par d)      Magnetic Flux
\par e)      Luminous Intensity
\par 
\par Answers : _Watt_; _Ampere_; _Farad_; _Weber_; _Candela_
\par 
\par 5.  Name the American novelists who created the following characters for the stated number of points.
\par 5. Tom Joad
\par 10. Robert Jordan
\par 15. Alexandra Bergson
\par 
\par Answers: John _Steinbeck_; Ernest _Hemingway_; Willa
\par             _Cather_
\par 
\par 6.  Identify the following events of the 1840s, FTP each.
\par a)  This work, published in 1848, begins by saying "A specter is haunting Europe."
\par b)  He invented the sowing machine in 1846.
\par c)  With money left to the United States in a British will, it was founded in Washington, D.C.
\par 
\par Answers : the _Communist Manifesto_; Elias _Howe_; the                  _Smithsonian Institution_
\par 
\par 7.  FTP each, name the scientific law from its description.
\par a)      The product of the index of refraction and the sine of the angle of incidence is constant as a light ray crosses the boundary between two surfaces.
\par b)      If the pressure remains constant, the volume occupied by a fixed amount of gas is directly proportional to its absolute temperature.
\par c)      In a large, random-mating population, the proportion of dominant and recessive genes present tends to remain constant from generation to generation unless outside forces act to change it.
\par 
\par Answers : _Snell\'cds_ law; _Charles\'cd_ law or _Gay-Lussac's_                    law; _Hardy-Weinberg_ principle
\par 
\par 8.  FTP each, identify these characters from Arthur Miller's play The Crucible.
\par a) The play's protaganist, a farmer who dislikes  the local minister, finds himself and his wife Elizabeth accused of witchcraft.
\par b) Proctor's femme fatale is this manipulative orphan, his ex-lover and ringleader of the accusers.
\par c) This litigious farmer refuses to enter a plea and is instead crushed by heavy stones.  His last words are "More weight."
\par 
\par Answers : John _Proctor_; _Abigail_ Williams; Giles _Corey_
\par 
\par 9.  Given the dynasties coming before and after it, identify the Chinese dynasty, FTP each.
\par a)  Shang and Chin
\par b)  Yuan and Manchu
\par c)  Sui and Sung
\par 
\par Answers : _Chou_; _Ming_; _Tang_
\par 
\par 10.  Given items from a television show that are in the Smithsonian, name the show, for five points each and a bonus five for all correct.
\par a)  Matt Dillon's hat
\par b)  A Detroit Tigers baseball cap
\par c)  A gold dress and a Toledo Mudhens pennant
\par d)  Clarabell's seltzer bottle
\par e)  A rubber duck and a trash can
\par 
\par Answers :  _Gunsmoke_; _Magnum, P.I._; _M*A*S*H_; _Howdy                 Doody_; _Sesame Street_
\par 
\par 11.  Identify the conic section, 30-20-10.
\par 30.  Its standard parametric form is (a times secant phi, b times tangent phi).
\par 20.  Its eccentricity is always greater than one.
\par 10.  Its equation is x squared over a squared minus y squared over b squared equals one.
\par 
\par \tab Answer: _hyperbola_
\par 
\par 12.  Identify the nineteenth century inventors of the following FTP each.
\par a)  Barbed wire
\par b)  Revolver
\par c)  Fountain pen
\par 
\par Answers : Joseph _Glidden_; Samuel _Colt_; Lewis _Waterman_
\par 
\par 13.  Identify the Renaissance painters from works on a 10-5 basis.
\par 10.  Madonna of the Meadow and Madonna of Foligno
\par 5.  The School of Athens
\par 10.  Madonna Benois and Madonna Litta
\par 5.  Mona Lisa
\par 10.  Madonna of Frari and the Gypsy Madonna
\par 5.  Rape of Europa
\par 
\par Answers : _Raphael_; _Leonardo_ da Vinci; _Titian_
\par 
\par 14.  Translate "Good Luck" into each of the following languages, FTP each.
\par a) French
\par b) Spanish
\par c) German
\par 
\par Answers : _Bonne chance_; _Buena suerte_; _Viel Gluck_
\par 
\par 15.  Six books of the Old Testament begin with the letter J.  FFP each, identify these books.
\par 
\par Answers : _Job_; _Jonah_; _Joel_; _Joshua_; _Judges_;                        _Jeremiah_
\par 
\par 16.  Identify the state where the following National Parks are located FTP each.
\par a) Acadia
\par b) Isle Royale
\par c) Theodore Roosevelt
\par 
\par Answers: _Maine_; _Michigan_; _North Dakota_
\par 
\par 17.  Identify the year in which the following Olympic events occurred FTP each.
\par a) Jim Thorpe won the gold in both the decatholon and pentathalon.
\par b) Tommy Smith and John Carlos were expelled from the U.S. Olympic team for the black power salute they made in a medal ceremony
\par c) Eric Heiden won all 5 of the men's speed skating events.
\par 
\par Answers: _1912_; _1968_; _1980_
\par 
\par 18.  Given members of defunct rock bands, name the bands, on a 10-5 basis.
\par 10.  Jerry Harrison and Chris Frantz
\par 5.  David Byrne
\par 10.  Andy Rourke and Mike Joyce
\par 5.  Morrissey
\par 10.  Steve Jones and Paul Cook
\par 5.  Johnny Rotten
\par 
\par Answers : _Talking Heads_; the _Smiths_; the _Sex Pistols_
\par 
\par 19.  Answer the following questions about Nigeria FTP each.
\par a) Along with Benin and Niger, this country shares a land border with Nigeria.
\par b) This was the name of the Ibo-led state that tried to gain independence from Nigeria during a 1967-1970 war.
\par c) This West African, centered in present-day Mali, controlled the Hausa areas of northern Nigeria in the 15th and 16th centuries.
\par 
\par Answers: _Cameroon_; _Biafra_; _Songhai_ empire
\par 
\par 20.  Identify the French poet from works, 30-20-10.
\par 30.  Illuminations
\par 20.  The Drunken Boat
\par 10.  A Season in Hell
\par 
\par \tab Answer: Arthur _Rimbaud_
\par }}