{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f123\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f124\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f126\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f127\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f128\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f135\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f136\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f138\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f139\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f140\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title Cavalier Classic 1996}{\author Jason Hong}
{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min28}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min28}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords2033}{\nofchars11591}{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws14234}{\vern71}}
\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale110\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0 Cavalier Classic 1996
\par Round 5
\par 
\par 1.  The two types of these are London forces and dipole-dipole forces.  London forces are approximately one-tenth weaker than the dipole-dipole variety and are the weakest electical force acting on atoms.  FTP, identify these forces named for the Dutch sc

\par ientist who first suggested their importance.
\par \tab Answer: _Van der Waals_ forces
\par 
\par 2.  He was governor of Virginia at the time of the Battle of Yorktown.  In the foreign service, he succeeded Franklin as minister to France.  FTP, name this Founding Father, the person around whom the Democratic-Republican party formed, winner of the Pres
idential election of 1800.
\par \tab Answer: Thomas _Jefferson_
\par 
\par 3.  Thought to have been written as a tribute to King James I, this Shakespeare play, his shortest, gives a flattering portrait of the descent of the Stuart line.  Minor characters include Donalbain, Malcolm, and Fleance, the son of Banquo and the forefat
her of the Stuarts.  FTP, name this play in which the title character takes the throne of Scotland by killing Duncan.
\par \tab Answer: _MacBeth_
\par 
\par 4.  Currently being featured in an extended cameo on ER, this actor replaced Wesley Snipes in the role of Willie Mays Hays in Major League 2.  FTP, name this actor who appeared in the film Higher Learning, but whose biggest role was as the star running ba
ck and sometime boyfriend of Halle Berry's character in The Program.
\par \tab Answer: Omar _Epps_
\par 
\par 5.  With a fractional charge of either 1/3 or 2/3 the charge of an electron, the existence of these theoretical particles was first postulated by George Zweig and Murray Gell-Mann.  FTP, identify these particles whose types are charmed, strange, up, down,
 bottom and top.
\par \tab Answer: _quark_
\par 
\par 6.  The two candidates to fill his seat in Congress are stockbrocker Jill Docking, a Democrat and Sam Brownback, a Republican temporarily filling the position.  He ran and lost for the Vice-Presidency in 1976.  FTP, name the man who resigned as Kansas's s
enator to pursue the Presidency full-time.
\par \tab Answer: Bob _Dole_
\par 
\par 7.  This mythological figure was King of the Myrmidons, had a son named Neoptolemus, and was himself the son of Peleus and Thetis.  He was the greatest Greek hero of the Trojan War, partly because, except for one spot on his body, he was invulnerable.  FT
P, name this hero killed by an arrow which struck his heel.
\par \tab Answer: _Achilles_
\par 
\par 8.  He is the author of Totem and Taboo, Moses and Monotheism, and Civilization and Its Discontents.  In 1938, he fled to England because of the Nazi persecution of Jews.  FTP, name this psychologist famous for The Interpretation of Dreams and for his con
cepts of the death drive, the Oedipus complex, and the id, ego, and superego.
\par \tab Answer: Sigmund _Freud_
\par 
\par 9.  As a youth, this Frenchman served as a newspaper correspondent following the Union army.  He served two terms as Premier of the Third Republic, from 1906 to 1909 and from 1917 to 1920.  FTP, name this member of the Big Four, nicknamed the Tiger, who t
ried to punish Germany at the Paris Peace Conference.
\par \tab Answer: Georges _Clemenceau_
\par 
\par 10.  FAQTP, what is the area of the ellipse whose equation is x squared over nine plus y squared over sixteen equals one?
\par \tab Answer: _twelve pi_
\par 
\par 11.  It is an expanded version of the story told in "Endicott and the Red Cross."  Set in Boston during the seventeenth century, it begins with the main character standing on a public scaffold for three hours, and the climactic scene also occurs on the pi
llory, when the young minister joins the heroine and her illegitimate daughter to confess his sin.  FTP, identify this novel, the story of Roger Chillingworth, Arthur Dimmesdale, and Hester Prynne, written by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
\par \tab Answer: The _Scarlet Letter_
\par 
\par 12.  He wanted to become organist at the Busseto Cathedral when his teacher, Giovanni Provesi, died, but the job was taken and he had to settle for conducting the town orchestra.  Moving to Milan in 1839 with his first opera, Oberto, its success led him t
o write three more, including the wildly popular Nabucco.  FTP, name this composer, author of an Ave Maria and the Manzoni Requiem, who is best known for operas like Otello, La Traviata, and Aida.
\par \tab Answer: Giuseppe _Verdi_
\par 
\par 13.  Events that occurred during the reign of this English monarch include the rise and fall of Napoleon and the conclusion of the Treaty of Paris ending the Seven Years War.  He had the longest reign of any English king, 60 years.  FTP, name this Hanover
ian, the tyrant against whom the American colonies rebelled.
\par \tab Answer: _George III_
\par 
\par 14.  This play takes place in the time just after the defeat of the Seven Against Thebes.  One of the dead seven is unburied, and the new king won't allow his burial.  The sister of Polynices, who is also the daughter of Oedipus and the play's title chara
cter, buries him anyway, and Creon, in revenge, buries her alive.  FTP, name this tragedy by Sophocles.
\par \tab Answer: _Antigone_
\par 
\par 15.  In 1677, he made the first full observation of a transit of Mercury.  An Englishman, he paid for the publication of Newton's Principia Mathematica.  He believed comets followed elliptical paths around the sun and predicted the comet of 1680 would ret
urn in 1758.  FTP, name the scientist, whose comet returned again in 1986.
\par \tab Answer: Edmund _Halley_
\par 
\par 16.  This U.S. state borders eight other states, and contains such physical features as the flood plain of the Mississippi River and the Unaka Mountains.  Cities include Oak Ridge, Johnson City, and Cleveland.  FTP, name this state whose capital is Nashvi
lle.
\par \tab Answer: _Tennessee_
\par 
\par 17.  This NFL starting quarterback's offensive linemen include Jason Mathews and Tony Mandarich, his tight end is Ken Dilger, and his wide receivers include Sean Dawkins and Marvin Harrison.  FTP, name this QB, dubbed Captain Comeback for leading the Colt
s to within a play of the Super Bowl last year.
\par \tab Answer: Jim _Harbaugh_
\par 
\par 18.  He founded several magazines, including Master Humphrey's Clock, Household Words, and All the Year Round.  He obtained his nickname after writing Sketches by Boz, a series of magazine articles about daily life.  FTP, name this English writer of the 1
9th Century, whose more famous works include Martin Chuzzlewitt, Bleak House, A Christmas Carol and A Tale of Two Cities.
\par \tab Answer: Charles _Dickens_
\par 
\par 19.  It was reported that this alternative rocker was seen checking into a hotel with No Doubt's Gwen Steffani in the week of the MTV Music Awards.  He is the vocalist for the band whose first album was Sixteen Stone, which featured songs like "Little Thi
ngs Kill" and "Glycerine".  FTP, name this man, the lead singer of Bush.
\par \tab Answer: Gavin _Rossdale_
\par 
\par 20.  One of the first scientists to observe the phases of Venus, he developed an alternative to the dynamics of Aristotle.  Born in 1564, his other discoveries include the law of falling bodies.  FTP, name the Italian who supposedly said "And still it mov
es!" under his breath after his famous recantation.
\par \tab Answer: _Galileo_ Galilei
\par \page Boni for round five :
\par 
\par 1.  Given a work of French literature, name its author FTP each.
\par a)  Gargantua and Pantagruel
\par b)  The Misanthrope
\par c)  The Human Comedy
\par 
\par Answers : Francois _Rabelais_; _Moliere_; Honore _Balzac_
\par 
\par 2.  FTP each, answer these questions about the following polynomial : x squared minus five x plus seven.
\par a) What is its degree?
\par b) What is the sum of its roots?
\par c) What is the product of its roots?
\par 
\par Answers: _two_; _five_; _seven_
\par 
\par 3.  Answer the following questions on the playoffs leading up to the World Series FTP each.
\par a)  What St. Louis Cardinal hit a grand slam off of Braves pitcher Greg Maddux in game 2 of the NLCS?
\par b)  What Oriole made a key error on a botched pump fake throw to let in the game-winning run in game 3 of the ALCS?
\par c)  What Ranger pitched a complete game to pick up Texas's only win in its divisional series with the Yankees?
\par 
\par Answers : Gary _Gaetti_; Todd _Zeile_; John _Burkett_
\par 
\par 4.  Identify the following architects from buildings they designed on a 10-5 basis.
\par 10.  The John Hancock Tower, Boston
\par 5.  The glass pyramid at the Louvre
\par 10.  The German Pavilion at the 1928 Barcelona Exhibition
\par 5.  The Seagram Building, New York
\par 10.  Trans-World Airline terminal, Kennedy Airport, New York
\par 5.  The Gateway Arch, St. Louis
\par 
\par Answers : I. M. _Pei_; Ludwig _Mies van der Rohe_; Eero                         _Saarinen_
\par 
\par 5.  Given the inventors of useful items and a hint, identify the things they created FTP each.
\par a)  This car accessory was invented by Mary Anderson in 1902.
\par b)  Although its use didn't become widespread until recently, this communications device was invented by Arthur Korn in 1907.
\par c)  Carlton Magee invented them in 1935, to the benefit of civic governments everywhere.
\par 
\par Answers : _windshield wipers_; _fax_ machines;
\par              _parking meters_
\par 
\par 6.  Identify the following works by Herman Melville, for the stated number of points.
\par 5.  This 1851 novel about a white whale is considered his masterpiece.
\par 10.  Not published until 1924, this story of a foretopman was set to music by Benjamin Britten.
\par 15.  Subtitled "A Peep at Polynesian Life," it was an immediate success and made Melville famous.
\par 
\par Answers : _Moby-Dick_; _Billy Budd_; _Typee_
\par 
\par 7.  Answer the following questions about the Mexican War FTP each.
\par a)  What President was happy to see the war come as it helped forward his policy of territorial expansion for the country?
\par b)  What General nicknamed Old Rough and Ready was the hero of the Battle of Buena Vista?
\par c)  What treaty brought the war to a conclusion?
\par 
\par Answers : James _Polk_; Zachary _Taylor_; Treaty of                     _Guadalupe Hidalgo_
\par 
\par 8.  Answer the following questions on genetics for the stated number of points.
\par 5,5.  For five points each, name the two scientists who discovered the double helix structure of DNA.
\par 5,5,5,5.  For an additional five points each, name the four nucleotides which makeup DNA.
\par 
\par Answers : James _Watson_; Francis _Crick_; _adenine_;                        _cytosene_; _guanine_; _thymine_
\par 
\par 9.  Given a 1996 Heisman Trophy candidate, name his school FTP each.
\par a)  Tiki Barber
\par b)  Orlando Pace
\par c)  Steve Sarkisian
\par 
\par Answers : _UVA_ (_Virginia_); _Ohio State_; _BYU_ (_Brigham Young_)
\par 
\par 10.  FTP each, answer these questions about world languages.
\par a)  What is the only Romance language which uses the Cyrillic alphabet?
\par b)  What is the only language which uses the Hiragana alphabet?
\par c)  The first two letters of what alphabet are "aleph" and "bet"?
\par 
\par Answers : _Romanian_; _Japanese_; _Hebrew_
\par 
\par 11.  Given the military event, name the year in which it took place FTP each.
\par a) Surrender of Vicksburg
\par b) Battle of Saratoga
\par c) Tet offensive
\par 
\par Answers: _1863_; _1777_; _1968_
\par 
\par 12.  1990 was a fine year for music, as the top ten albums of that year indicate.  Given a band or artist, name their top ten album from 1990, FFP each.
\par a)  Janet Jackson
\par b)  Phil Collins
\par c)  Michael Bolton
\par d)  Aerosmith
\par e)  Motley Crue
\par f)  B-52's
\par 
\par Answers : _Rhythm Nation 1814_; _But Seriously_; _Soul                          Provider_; _Pump_; _Dr. Feelgood_; _Cosmic Thing_
\par 
\par 13.  Identify the twentieth century author from works,
\par 30-20-10.
\par 30.  The Boy in the Bush and Aaron's Rod
\par 20.  The White Peacock and The Rocking-Horse Winner
\par 10.  Sons and Lovers and Lady Chatterly's Lover
\par 
\par \tab Answer: D. H. _Lawrence_
\par 
\par 14.  Answer the following questions on the plant kingdom for the stated number of points.
\par 5.  What is the term for the study of plants?
\par 10.  Possession of what pigment allows plants to conduct photosynthesis?
\par 15.  What type of plants are characterized by having naked seeds formed on open scales produced in cones?
\par 
\par Answers : _botany_; _chlorophyll_; _gymnosperms_
\par 
\par 15.  Answer the following concerning the beginnings of socialism, FTP each.
\par a)  This German organized the First International in 1864.
\par b)  He was Marx's partner and helped him create dialectical materialism.
\par c)  The first volume of this massive study of capitalist economies was published by Marx in 1867.
\par 
\par Answers : Karl _Marx_; Friedrich _Engels_; _Das Kapital_
\par 
\par 16.  Given the subtitle to a current best-selling nonfiction book, give the author FTP each.  If you need the title, you only get 5 points.
\par 10. Modern Liberalism and American Decline
\par 5. Slouching Towards Gomorrah
\par 10. A Cubicle-Eye View of Bosses, Meetings, Management Fads and Other Workplace Afflictions
\par 5. The Dilbert Principle
\par 10. An Agent Inside the Clinton White House
\par 5. Unlimited Access
\par 
\par Answers : Robert _Bork_; Scott _Adams_; Gary _Aldrich_
\par 
\par 17.  Give the total number of Popes to have taken the following names, FFP each and a five points bonus for all correct.
\par a)  Paul
\par b)  Pius
\par c)  John
\par d)  Leo
\par e)  John Paul
\par 
\par Answers : _6_; _12_; _23_; _13_; _2_
\par 
\par 18.  Identify the World War I battles, FTP each.
\par a)  On one day of this 1916 battle, the British lost 60,000 troops, the highest single day losses in history.
\par b)  The counter-offensive ordered here by Joffre in September, 1914 stopped the German assault on Paris.
\par c)  This 1916 naval battle, fought in the Skagerrak, saw the Germans yield after inflicting heavy losses on the British.
\par 
\par Answers : Battle of the _Somme_; Battle of the _Marne_;                 _Jutland_
\par 
\par 19.  Identify the countries from cities they contain on a 10-5 basis.
\par 10.  Valparaiso, Concepcion
\par 5.  Santiago
\par 10.  Marrakesh, Fez
\par 5.  Rabat
\par 10.  Basel, Lausanne
\par 5.  Bern
\par 
\par Answers : _Chile_; _Morocco_; _Switzerland_
\par 
\par 20.  Ocean life can be grouped into three broad categories. Name them from a description FTP each.
\par a) This class, whose name derives from the Greek for "floating", includes algae, bacteria, and jellyfish. Many of its members can carry out photosynthesis.
\par b) This class, whose members swim under their own power, feeds on the plankton.
\par c) This class encompasses life on the sea floor, including sea squirts and sponges.
\par 
\par Answers: _plankton_; _nekton_; _benthos_ or _benthic_
\par }}