{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f123\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f124\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f126\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f127\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f128\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f135\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f136\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f138\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f139\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f140\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title Cavalier Classic 1996}{\author Jason Hong}
{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min36}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min36}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords1961}{\nofchars11180}{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws13729}{\vern71}}
\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale110\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0 Cavalier Classic 1996
\par Round 1
\par 
\par 1.  At the age of 14, he left high school to enter a seminary, but dropped out a year later.  After a knee injury forced him off his high school wrestling team, he took up acting, and made his film debut in 1981's Endless Love.  FTP, identify this actor, 
born Thomas Mapother, whose films include Born on the Fourth of July, Top Gun, and Mission : Impossible.
\par \tab Answer: Tom _Cruise_
\par 
\par 2.  Lady Astor became the first female member of the House of Commons.  The Bauhaus was established, and the Amritsar massacre took place.  FTP, identify the common year, in which Hitler established the Nazi party, the Soviet Union was founded, and the T
reaty of Versailles was signed.
\par \tab Answer: _1919_
\par 
\par 3.  A reservoir for erythrocytes, it regulates the number of them in circulation, destroys old ones, and stores the iron that they contain.  In addition, it produces lymphocytes and breaks down foreign particles.  FTP, identi
fy this organ, an aggregate of lymphoid tissue which lies behind the stomach.
\par \tab Answer: _spleen_
\par 
\par 4.  His apocryphal acts tell how he died by crucifixion in Achaia.  He lived as a fisherman in Beth-saida with his brother Simon Peter until becoming a follower of John the Baptist.  FTP, identify this disciple, the patron saint of Scotland.
\par \tab Answer: _Andrew_
\par 
\par 5.  He founded a literary review in 1935 while on assignment in Spain.  A translator of Blake, he wrote social poems collected in Extravagaria, Canto general, and Residence on Earth.  FTP, name this poet, who returned to Chile in 1953, the winner of the 1
971 Nobel Prize who figured in the film Il Postino.
\par \tab Answer: Pablo _Neruda_
\par 
\par 6.  It was prompted by an attack on Massinissa in 150 B.C.  Although submission was offered, the natives refused to leave the city, and it was destroyed in 146 by Scipio.  FTP, identify this war, which was sparked by Cato's insistence that "Carthage must 
be destroyed."
\par \tab Answer: the _Third Punic_ war
\par 
\par 7.  The first was Ernie Calverly, who averaged only 3.4 a game for Providence in 1947.  Andy Phillip was the first to repeat, and later ones include Slick Watts, Lenny Wilkens, Jerry West, and Isiah Thomas.  FTP, identify this statistical achievement, who
se all time leaders include Oscar Robertson, Bob Cousy, and John Stockton.
\par \tab Answer: _NBA assist leader_ (accept alternatives)
\par 
\par 8.  The novel ends in Room 101, where every man must confront his worst nightmare.  Published in 1949, it describes the state of affairs in Airstrip One, part of the state of Oceania.  FTP, identify this story of O'Brien, Julia, and Winston Smith, written
 by George Orwell.
\par \tab Answer: _1984_
\par 
\par 9.  They have ferromagnetic cores linked to winding wires.  They lose power due to eddy currents and incomplete magnetic linkage, although laminating the core can result in highly efficient models.  FTP, identify this device for transferring energy betwee
n alternating-current circuits, examples of which might include Feedback, Shockwave, and Megatron.
\par \tab Answer: _transformers_
\par 
\par 10.  He created a controversy in August by calling the National Association of Black Journalists "slave media people."  He once played Mendelssohn on the violin to prove that he didn't hate all Jews.  FTP, identify this outspoken advocate for African Amer
ican rights.
\par \tab Answer: Louis _Farrakhan_
\par 
\par 11.  With the division at the 37th parallel, Utah and New Mexico would be created.  Texas would be paid 10 million dollars.  The slave trade in the District of Columbia would be outlawed.  FTP, what common name is given to these measures, along with the a
dmission of California to the union and the establishment of a new fugitive slave law?
\par \tab Answer: the _Compromise of 1850_
\par 
\par 12.  He was pardoned for working for Joseph Bonaparte and continued at the court until 1824, when he went into voluntary exile in Bordeaux.  After going deaf in 1792, his work turned inward, as can be seen in the etchings called Los Caprichios and The Dis
asters of War.  FTP, identify this Spanish artist, court painter to Charles IV whose best known painting is the Third of May, 1808.
\par \tab Answer: Francisco _Goya_
\par 
\par 13.  He wrote Phelibus, Epinomis, Laches, Lysis, Menexenus, Ion, and Charmides.  However, he is better known for works like Meno, on knowledge, Gorgias, on rhetoric, and the Symposium, on love.  FTP, identify this Greek philosopher, best known for dialogu

\par es like Phaedrus, the Apology, and the Republic.
\par \tab Answer: _Plato_
\par 
\par 14.  It is separated from the mainland by the Gulf of Mannar and the Palk Strait.  In the north, Jaffna Lagoon stretches to Point Pedro, while the Adams Bridge connects to Pamban Island in the west.  FTP, identify this island, whose cities include Trincom
alee, Batticaloa, Ratnapura, and Colombo, lying to the south of India and formerly known as Ceylon.
\par \tab Answer: _Sri Lanka_
\par 
\par 15.  She was born Dana Owens in East Orange, New Jersey in 1970.  A power forward on two state champion high school basketball teams, she was a cashier at Burger King and the Wiz before going on to a career as a rap artist.  FTP, identify this woman, CEO 
of Flavor Unit whose film debut came in Jungle Fever and whose first album was 1989's All Hail the Queen.
\par \tab Answer: Queen _Latifah_
\par 
\par 16.  FAQTP, what is the sum of all the odd numbers between 1 and 49, inclusive?
\par \tab Answer: _625_
\par 
\par 17.  In For Lancelot Andrews, he defined himself as an Anglo-Catholic, a classicist, and a royalist.  Author of plays like The Confidential Clerk, The Family Reunion, and Murder in the Cathedral, he is better known as a poet.  FTP, name this author of Ger
ontion, Portrait of a Lady, and Ash Wednesday, best known for The Hollow Men and The Waste Land.
\par \tab Answer: Thomas Sterns _Eliot_
\par 
\par 18.  Of her five children, Maria and Isabella both married Manuel I, Joan was the mother of Charles V, and Catherine married Henry VIII.  The half-sister of Henry IV, he was forced by the nobles to make her his heir, and in 1474 she became ruler of Castil
e.  FTP, identify this Spanish queen, the patroness of Christopher Columbus who unified Spain with her marriage to Ferdinand of Aragon.
\par \tab Answer: _Isabella_ of Castile
\par 
\par 19.  It proceeds from daily life to love and marriage to death.  Introduced by a stage manager, it begins with Editor Webb and Professor Willard, and moves on to show the tragic love of George and Emily.  FTP, identify this play, set in Grover's Corners a
nd written by Thornton Wilder.
\par \tab Answer: _Our Town_
\par 
\par 20.  In 1940, Joseph Meister committed suicide after the Nazis ordered him to open this man's crypt.  55 years earlier, as a nine year old boy, Meister was brought to this man after being bitten 14 times by a dog, and became the first human subject of a r
evolutionary vaccine.  FTP, identify this French scientist, whose attenuated vaccine was the first cure for rabies.
\par \tab Answer: Louis _Pasteur_
\par 
\par \page Boni for round one :
\par 
\par 1.  Identify the following Supreme Court cases, FTP each.
\par a)  In this 1866 case, the military commission at Indianapolis that tried and convicted citizens was ruled unconstitutional.
\par b)  This 1824 case involved a monopoly that the New York legislature awarded to steamboat operators.
\par c)  Justice Holmes and a unanimous court ruled that the Espionage Act did not violate the first amendment in this 1919 "clear and present danger" case.
\par 
\par Answers : _Ex parte Milligan_; _Gibbons v. Ogden_; _Schenck v. U.S._
\par 
\par 2.  It's hard to believe, but the first MTV Video Music Awards were given out 12 years ago.  FTP each, see if you can remember what groups won awards in the following categories in the inaugural year of 1984; if you need the song, you'll only receive five

\par  points.
\par 10.  Best Group Video
\par 5.  "Legs"
\par 10.  Best Male Video
\par 5.  "China Girl"
\par 10.  Best Video of the Year
\par 5.  "You Might Think"
\par 
\par Answers : _ZZ Top_; David _Bowie_; the _Cars_
\par 
\par 3.  Identify the authors of the following British novels, FTP each.
\par a)  The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy
\par b)  Tom Jones
\par c)  Clarissa
\par 
\par \tab Answer: Lawrence _Sterne_; Henry _Fielding_; Samuel                        _Richardson_
\par 
\par 4.  Given the star, identify the constellation to which it belongs, FFP each and a five point bonus for all correct.
\par a)  Rigel
\par b)  Aldebaran
\par c)  Deneb
\par d)  Regulus
\par e)  Spica
\par 
\par Answers : _Orion_; _Taurus_; _Cygnus_; _Leo_; _Virgo_
\par 
\par 5.  Given a text it holds sacred, identify the world religion, FTP each.
\par a)  the Hadith
\par b)  the Analects
\par c)  the Adi Granth
\par 
\par Answers : _Islam_; _Confucianism_; _Sikhism_
\par 
\par 6.  Identify the American poet from works on a 30-20-10 basis.
\par 30.  Provide, Provide and The Oven Bird
\par 20.  Birches and New Hampshire
\par 10.  The Gift Outright and Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening
\par 
\par \tab Answer: Robert _Frost_
\par 
\par 7.  FTP each, calculate the following integrals.
\par a) The integral from zero to pi of sin x dx.
\par b) The integral from 3 to 6 of x squared dx.
\par c) The integral from zero to one of one over the quantity x squared plus one.
\par 
\par Answers : _2_; _63_; _pi over four_ or _one fourth pi_
\par 
\par 8.  Given the soap opera beginnings of a notable actor or actress, identify them FTP each; if you need a second clue, you will recelve five points.
\par 10.  Ned Bates on Loving
\par 5.  His greatest acting moments include shouting "No, no!" when his wife, the Noxzema girl, and father Jack McKaye died on Beverly Hills, 90210
\par 10.  Bill "Snapper" Foster on The Young and the Restless
\par 5.  Currently, he is the massively popular (in Germany, anyway) star of Baywatch Nights
\par 10.  Jade Soong on General Hospital
\par 5.  After minimal film work in Wayne's World, she is starring as the sadistic lust interest in a series of M & M ads
\par 
\par Answers : Luke _Perry_; David _Hasselhoff_; Tia _Carrere_
\par 
\par 9.  Identify these figures from early French history, FTP each.
\par a)  This chief of the Franks founded the Merovingian dynasty in 486.
\par b)  He defeated the Saracens in 732 at the Battle of Tours.
\par c)  This father of Charlemagne overthrew the Merovingians and declared himself king in 751.
\par 
\par Answers : _Clovis_; _Charles Martel_; _Pepin the Short_
\par 
\par 10.  Identify the Shakespeare plays from characters FTP each.
\par a)  Roderigo, Brabantio, and Cassio
\par b)  Theseus, Lysander, and Demetrius
\par c)  Gonzalo, Alonso, and Ferdinand
\par 
\par Answers : _Othello_; _A Midsummer Night's Dream_; the                        _Tempest_
\par 
\par 11.  Identify the current vice-presidential candidates given their running mates, for the stated number of points.
\par 5.  Bob Dole
\par 10.  Ross Perot
\par 15.  Harry Browne
\par 
\par Answers : Jack _Kemp_; Pat _Choate_; Jo _Jorgensen_
\par 
\par 12.  Identify the Italian scientists FTP each.
\par a)  Best known for his constant, his law states that equal volumes of gases as the same pressure and temperature contain equal numbers of molecules.
\par b)  His experiments on frog legs showed that touching metals in muscle produced an electric current.
\par c)  Element 100 was named after this man, who did work on beta decay and isotopes.
\par 
\par Answers : Amedeo _Avogadro_; Luigi _Galvani_; Enrico _Fermi_
\par 
\par 13.  Identify the composers of the following Baroque works, for the stated number of points.
\par 5.  The Four Seasons
\par 10.  Royal Fireworks Music
\par 15.  The Art of the Fugue
\par 
\par Answers : Antonio _Vivaldi_; George _Handel_; J. S. _Bach_
\par 
\par 14.  FTP each, answer these questions about economics.
\par a)      This law is typically paraphrased as \'f1Bad money drives out good\'ee.
\par b)      This is the term for an item for which, paradoxically, the demand goes up when the price increases.
\par c)      This varible, denoted by a letter and a number, describes the money supply of the United States; it is defined as currency outside banks plus check-writing deposits issued by deposit intermediaries.
\par 
\par Answers : _Gresham\'cds_ law; _Giffen_ good; _M1_
\par 
\par 15.  Given the capital, identify the nation, FTP each.
\par a)  Freetown
\par b)  Harare
\par c)  Skopje
\par 
\par Answers : _Sierra Leone_; _Zimbabwe_; _Macedonia_
\par 
\par 16.  Only 11 horses have won the Triple Crown.  Given a decade, identify one of the horses to win the Triple Crown during it, FTP each.
\par a)  the 1930s
\par b)  the 1940s
\par c)  the 1970s
\par 
\par Answers : _Gallant Fox_ or _Omaha_ or _War Admiral_; _Whirlaway_ or _Count Fleet_ or _Assault _ or _Citation_;
\par _Secretariat_ or _Seattle Slew_ or _Affirmed_
\par 
\par 17.  FTP each, give the following forms of the Spanish verb venir (to come).
\par a) First person singular, present indicative.
\par b) Second person singular, future.
\par c) Third person singular, preterite.
\par 
\par \tab Answer: _vengo_; _venDRAS_; _vino_ (bold face on second word indicates an accent)
\par 
\par 18.  Identify the German authors from works on a 10-5 basis.
\par 10.  The Sorrows of Young Werther
\par 5.  Faust
\par 10.  Joseph and his Brothers
\par 5.  The Magic Mountain
\par 10.  The Flounder
\par 5.  The Tin Drum
\par 
\par Answers : Johann von _Goethe_; Thomas _Mann_; Gunther _Grass_
\par 
\par 19.  Identify the scientific term, 30-20-10.
\par 30.  In botany, it is the part of a plant stem which leaves branch off from.
\par 20.  In physics, it is a minimum disturbance in a stationary wave, while in astronomy, it is a point at which the orbit of a celestial body intersects the plane of the ecliptic.
\par 10.  In anatomy, it is a bulge in an organ.  Examples include the sinoatrial and the lymph.
\par 
\par \tab Answer: _node_
\par 
\par 20.  Given men who have held a cabinet office, identify the common position on a 10-5 basis.
\par 10.  Lucius Q. C. Lamar, R. A. Ballinger, Thomas Ewing
\par 5.  Harold Ickes, James Watt
\par 10.  John Sherman, Fred Vinson, William McAdoo
\par 5.  Andrew Mellon, Alexander Hamilton
\par 10.  Edward Everett, Philander Knox, Robert Lansing
\par 5.  Cordell Hull, William Jennings Bryan
\par 
\par Answers : _Interior_; _Treasury_; _State_
\par }}