{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f123\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f124\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f126\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f127\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f128\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f135\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f136\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f138\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f139\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f140\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title Cavalier Classic 1996}{\author Jason Hong}
{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min30}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min30}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords2180}{\nofchars12430}{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws15264}{\vern71}}
\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale110\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0 Cavalier Classic 1996
\par Round 4
\par 
\par 1.  The second poorest country in the Western hemisphere, this nation held its first free elections in 1990, replacing the incumbent with the widow of a slain newspaper editor.  On October 20, the second presidential vote was scheduled, with Arnoldo Alema
n facing 1990's loser, Daniel Ortega.  FTP, name this country in which Ortega's Sandinistas are still fighting the Contras, which has its capital in Managua.
\par \tab Answer: _Nicaragua_
\par 
\par 2.  These particles can interact with matter via pair production, Rayleigh scattering, or the Compton effect. Einstein first proposed their existence, drawing on the work of Planck several years earlier.  Their energy is proportional to their frequency, a
nd their speed is absolute.  FTP, name these massless particles, the quanta of light.
\par \tab Answer: _photons_
\par 
\par 3.  Until coming to New York city in 1834, he worked as the editor for an abolitionist newspaper in Danbury, Connecticut.  His career began with the purchase of Joice Heth, a black woman who was allegedly the 161 year old nurse of George Washington.  FTP,

\par  name this American, whose attractions included Jenny Lind, Jumbo the elephant, and Tom Thunb, a showman best known for his "Greatest Show on Earth."
\par \tab Answer: Phineas Tylor _Barnum_
\par 
\par 4.  Lame and overweight, this baron of Abbotsford influenced much English and American prose and poetry in the nineteenth century.  He expressed his romantic vision through historical novels, including The Heart of Midlothian, and metrical romances like T
he Lady of the Lake.  FTP, name this writer who made heroes out of Rob Roy and Ivanhoe.
\par \tab Answer: Sir Walter _Scott_
\par 
\par 5.  Louis Malle's Au Revoir les Enfants was popular, but a certain video store employee, unable to pronounce the name, gave it one of his own.  FTP, this explains the cryptic title of what movie, featuring Mr. Brown, Mr. White, Mr. Pink, and Nice Guy Eddi
e, directed by former slacker Quentin Tarantino?
\par \tab Answer: _Reservoir Dogs_
\par 
\par 6.  With a short, thickset body and a shaggy coat, the female of this species weighs up to 90 pounds as an adult, less than half the weight of the male, which has cheek flaps of subcutaneous fatty tissue and an air sac that forms a baglike swelling hangin
g from its throat. Mostly arboreal and active in the daytime, they are indigenous to Borneo and Sumatra.  FTP, identify this large ape, whose name is Malaysian for "man of the forest".
\par \tab Answer: _orangutan_
\par 
\par 7.  Petra Lovetinska, Jeanie Mentavlos, Kim Messer and Nancy Mace will probably never become the household names that their predecessor did.  However, these four women, equipped with locks on their doors and super-short haircuts, followed Shannon Faulkner
 as the second -- and hopefully more successful -- class of female cadets at, FTP, what Charleston, South Carolina college?
\par \tab Answer: The _Citadel_
\par 
\par 8.  Visiting Sweden on a tour of penal institutions, he read The Grapes of Wrath and was inspired to write a novel about social injustice in his homeland.  Drawing on his experience as the principal of a boys' reformatory, he created Absalom Kumalo, a pre
acher's son driven to crime.  FTP, name this South African whose novel was published in 1948 as Cry, the Beloved Country.
\par \tab Answer: Alan _Paton_
\par 
\par 9.  The best varieties of this wood come from the West Indies, although other kinds come from Mexico, South America, and Africa.  During the 1700s it was used to build cathedrals in the New World and furniture in England.  Often called the finest cabinet 
wood in the world, it was used by Chippendale and Hepplewhite because of its strength and resistance to shrinkage.  FTP, name this dark wood, also the title of a Diana Ross film.
\par \tab Answer:  _Mahogany_
\par 
\par 10.  A suite in fourteen parts, Ogden Nash wrote verses to preface each section, which are often read during contemporary performances.  FTP, identify this composition for two pianos and orchestra, which uses the clarinet to represent the cuckoo, the doub
le-bass for the elephant, and the cello for the swan, written by Camille Saint-Saens.
\par \tab Answer: The _Carnival of the Animals_
\par 
\par 11.  Although he wrote a ballet, The Gallant Muses, and an opera, The Village Soothsayer, he did not become famous until 1750, when he published his Discourse on the Sciences and Arts.  After writing his Discourse on the Origin and Basis of Inequality amo
ng Men, he returned to Protestantism and to Geneva.  FTP, name this philosopher, best known for Julie, Emile, and The Social Contract.
\par \tab Answer: Jean-Jacques _Rousseau_
\par 
\par 12.  Its highest point is a spot 345 feet above sea level in Walton County.  Its state song is "Old Folks at Home" and its state bird is the mockingbird.  Its state blossom is the orange blossom.  FTP, name this Southern state, whose capital is Tallahasse
e.
\par \tab Answer:  _Florida_
\par 
\par 13.  It proclaimed that "the labor of a human being is not a commodity or article of commerce."  Prohibiting interlocking directorates in large industrial aggregations, tying contracts, and price discriminations intended to produce a monopoly, it provided
 for jury trials in contempt cases and made boycotts and strikes legal.  FTP, identify this 1914 act which revised the Sherman Antitrust Act.
\par \tab Answer: _Clayton_ antitrust act
\par 
\par 14.  Born in what is now Yugoslavia, he died in Bethlehem.  Secretary to Pope Damascus, he moved to Palestine after his outspoken criticism of other clerics.  FTP, name this father of the Church, who produced the Latin Vulgate translation of the Bible.

\par \tab Answer:  St. _Jerome_
\par 
\par 15.  This gland, common to all vertebrates, functions as an exocrine gland in secreting enzymes from acinar cells through the duct of Wirsung into the duodenum. It is also an endocrine gland, secreting somatostatin, glucagon, 
and insulin from the islands of Langerhans.  FTP, name this compound gland, attached to the small intestine.
\par \tab Answer: _pancreas_
\par 
\par 16.  The novel ends in the magic theater, where the hero learns that he must overcome his inhibitions in order to relate to other people.  The central character is an tormented artist who pictures himself as a wild animal because he is so lonely.  FTP, id
entify this 1927 work, the story of Harry Haller, written by Hermann Hesse and adopted as a name by the band that sang "Born to be Wild."
\par \tab Answer: _Steppenwolf_
\par 
\par 17.  In 1927, they moved from the Border Cities Arena in Windsor, Ontario to Olympia Stadium, where they would remain for the next 52 years.  Their first of seven Stanley Cups came in 1936.  FTP, identify this NHL team, which plays its home games at Joe L
ouis Arena, and which lost in the 1995 Stanley Cup finals and the 1996 Western Conference finals, despite having posted the best regular season record ever.
\par \tab Answer: _Detroit Red Wings_
\par 
\par 18.  FAQTP, how many orderings are possible of a list containing six elements?
\par \tab Answer: _720_
\par 
\par 19.  In 1881, the work reached its final order, with later poems being put in two annexes.  The original edition, unsigned and containing twelve untitled poems, was published in 1855.  FTP, identify this collection of poetry, including Drum-Taps, Cadamus,

\par Crossing Brooklyn Ferry, When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloomed, and Song of Myself, written by Walt Whitman.
\par \tab Answer: _Leaves of Grass_
\par 
\par 20.  In 1723, it was accepted by the diet of Hungary, and a special agreement over it with Spain produced the alliance of Herrenhausen.  It provided for the descendants of Joseph I to inherit the crown in the event that the main line should fail, and decr

\par eed that the lands of the empire should not be divided.  FTP, identify this order, proclaimed by Emperor Charles VI to insure that the Austrian throne should pass to Maria Theresa after his death.
\par \tab Answer: the _Pragmatic Sanction_
\par 
\par \page 
\par Boni for round four :
\par 
\par 1.  FTP each, identify these films by Alfred Hitchcock :
\par a) Starring Cary Grant and Eva Marie-Saint, it is famous for the climactic scene on Mount Rushmore and for the image of Grant being strafed by a crop duster.
\par b) The only Hitchcock film to win an Oscar for Best Picture was this 1940 flick about a widower with a new wife and a  creepy maid, based on a bestseller by Daphne DuMaurier.
\par c) Jimmy Stewart and Grace Kelly star in this film about an invalid who witnesses a murder through his binoculars.
\par 
\par \tab Answer: _North by Northwest_; _Rebecca_; _Rear Window_
\par 
\par 2.  Identify the artistic movement, 30-20-10.
\par 30.  The name by which we know it was first applied in 1872 by critic Louis Leroy.
\par 20.  Lesser known painters of the movement include Alfred Sisley, Camille Pissarro, and Gustave Caillebotte.
\par 10.  Its best known artists include Edgar Degas and Claude Monet.
\par 
\par \tab Answer: _impressionism_
\par 
\par 3.  Identify these heads of state for five points each, with a five points bonus for all correct :
\par a) Canada - Prime Minister
\par b) France - President
\par c) Brazil - President
\par d) India - Prime Minister
\par e) Denmark - Prime Minister
\par 
\par \tab Answer: Jean _Chretien_; Jacques _Chirac_(She-ROCK); Fernando      _Cardoso_; P. V. Narasimha _Rao_; Poul Nyrup
\par            _Rasmussen_
\par 
\par 4.  Name the French kings FTP each.
\par a) Leader of 2 crusades to the Holy Land, he died in North Africa in 1270.
\par b) Patron of Leonardo da Vinci, he fought a series of wars against Emperor Charles V during his reign from 1515 to 1547.
\par c) This king, who reportedly said, "After me, the deluge," was monarch when France lost its Canadian possessions in the French and Indian War.
\par 
\par Answers: _Louis IX_; _Francis I_; _Louis XV_
\par 
\par 5.  Identify the Russian authors of the following FTP each.
\par a)  Fathers and Sons
\par b)  Dead Souls
\par c)  Eugene Onegin
\par 
\par Answers : Ivan _Turgenev_; Nikolai _Gogol_; Alexander                        _Pushkin_
\par 
\par 6.  FTP each, identify the alternative groups who produced the following albums.
\par a)  Dirt
\par b)  Undertow
\par c)  Badmotorfinger
\par 
\par Answers : _Alice in Chains_; _Tool_; _Soundgarden_
\par 
\par 7.  Evaluate the following mathematical expressions for the stated number of points.
\par 5. The volume of a right cylinder with radius 1 and height 2.
\par 10. The surface area of a unit sphere.
\par 15. The integral from 0 to pi of cosine x
\par 
\par Answers : _2 pi_; _4 pi_; _0_
\par 
\par 8.  Identify the river from cities it runs through for the stated number of points.
\par 5. Budapest, Vienna
\par 10. Tours, Orleans, Nantes
\par 15. Florence, Pisa
\par 
\par Answers : _Danube_; _Loire_; _Arno_
\par 
\par 9.  Give the spelling of these scientific words from a definition for ten points, or from the spoken word itself for five points apiece.
\par 10. It was long suspected that these bony fishes went extinct around 60 million years ago, but a living specimen was caught in the Indian Ocean in 1938.
\par 5. "SEE-luh-canth"
\par 10. Colorless below pH 8.0 and having a deep red hue above pH 10.0, it is widely used as an acid-base indicator.
\par 5. "fee-nol-THAY-leen"
\par 10. A long wire wound in the form of a helix, used to produce a uniform magnetic field in the interior of the coil.
\par 5. "SO-luh-noid"
\par 
\par Answers: _coelacanth_; _phenolphthalein_; _solenoid_
\par 
\par 10.  Name the mothers of the following Greek gods, FTP each.
\par a)  Zeus
\par b)  Hermes
\par c)  Apollo
\par 
\par Answers : _Rhea_; _Maia_; _Leto_
\par 
\par 11.  30-20-10, name the great American.
\par 30. Apprenticed to a clothmaker at 14, he was treated so badly that he threatened his master with an axe.
\par 20. As the presidential candidate for the Know-Nothing Party in 1856, he carried one state: Maryland.
\par 10. He served as President between Zachary Taylor and Franklin Pierce.
\par 
\par \tab Answer: Millard _Fillmore_
\par 
\par 12.  Name the novels with the following opening lines FTP each.
\par a) "It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a good wife."
\par b) "It was the best of times, it was the worst of times."
\par c)  "You don't know me, without you have read a book by the name of The Adventures of Tom Sawyer, but that ain't no matter."
\par 
\par Answers: _Pride and Prejudice_; _A Tale of Two Cities_;                     _Adventures of Huckleberry Finn_
\par 
\par 13.  FTP each, identify the following terms from economics.
\par a) This is the measure of the ease in which an asset can be converted to money without loss to its value.
\par b) This phenomenon occurs when increased government spending drives up interest rates, thus displacing private investments.
\par c) This principle states that the individual or country with the lowest opportunity costs should specialize in producing a certain good.
\par 
\par \tab Answer: _liquidity_; _crowding out_;  principle or law of                  _comparative advantage_
\par 
\par 14.  FTP each, answer the following.
\par a)  Give the French equivalent to the German "Gesund" (guh-ZOONT)
\par b)  Give the Spanish equivalent to the French "Nuit" (NWEE)
\par c)  Give the German equivalent to the Spanish "Nueve" (nu-WAY-vay)
\par 
\par Answers : _Sante_ (sahn-tay); _Noche_; _Neun_
\par 
\par 15.  FTP each, give the chemistry term from its definition.
\par a)  A species such as water, which acts in some reactions as a base and others as an acid, is called this.
\par b)  This is a process which occurs at constant pressure.
\par c)  This is a phase transition in which a gas forms directly from a solid.
\par 
\par Answers : _amphoteric_; _isobaric_; _sublimation_
\par 
\par 16.  Identify the conquistadors for the stated number of points.
\par 5.  He destroyed the Aztec empire with his capture of Montezuma.
\par 10.  He killed Atahualpa and conquered the Incas.
\par 15.  Although his expedition to find the Seven Cities of Gold ended in failure, one of his men discovered the Grand Canyon.
\par 
\par Answers : Hernando _Cortez_; Francisco _Pizarro_; Francisco             Vasquez de _Coronado_
\par 
\par 17.  Identify the poet from works, 30-20-10.
\par 30.  The Tower and The Wild Swans at Coole
\par 20.  "Lapis Lazuli" and "Among School Children"
\par 10.  "Leda and the Swan" and "Sailing to Byzantium"
\par 
\par \tab Answer: William Butler _Yeats_
\par 
\par 18.  Given clues, name these players involved in the monstrous Houston-San Diego baseball trade of 1993 for the stated number of points.
\par 5. A NL MVP candidate, this current Padre may have the
\par strongest infield arm in the major leagues.
\par 10. Also on the Padres currently, this former Oriole outfielder enjoyed his best season in 1996, more than doubling his career high in home runs.
\par 15. This shortstop was sent to the Tigers in 1996 because of
\par his uncanny ability to strike out.
\par 
\par Answers : Ken _Caminiti_; Steve _Finley_; Andujar _Cedeno_
\par 
\par 19.  Identify the twentieth century dramatists from works on a 15-10-5 basis.
\par 15.  The Milk Train Doesn't Stop Here Anymore
\par 10.  The Night of the Iguana
\par 5.  The Glass Menagerie
\par 15.  Every Good Boy Deserves Favour
\par 10.  Travesties
\par 5.  Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead
\par 
\par Answers : Tennessee _Williams_; Tom _Stoppard_
\par 
\par 20.  Identify this term on a 30-20-10 basis.
\par 30. In art, it describes a soft glass, made with red lead and soda or potash, which is applied to metal surfaces as a decoration.
\par 20. In anatomy, it refers to a non-living, nerveless tissue which, when mature, consists mainly of apatite crystals containing calcium and phosphate.
\par 10. The hardest substance in the body, it covers the crowns of your teeth.
\par 
\par \tab Answer: _enamel_
\par }}