{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f123\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f124\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f126\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f127\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f128\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f135\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f136\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f138\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f139\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f140\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title Cavalier Classic 1996}{\author Jason Hong}
{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min26}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min26}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords2194}{\nofchars12508}{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws15360}{\vern71}}
\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale110\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0 Cavalier Classic 1996
\par Round 6
\par 
\par 1.  He was the offspring of an incubus and a virtuous woman, and displayed his parentage with the dragon's scales behind his ears.  He spent his last days trapped in a tower created by his mistress, Viviane, who was better known as the Lady of the Lake. 
FTP, name this magician and advisor to King Arthur.
\par \tab Answer: _Merlin_
\par 
\par 2.  One states that the algebraic sum of the electromotive forces within any closed circuit is equal to the sum of the products of the currents and resistances.  The second states that the sum of all currents flowing through the wires in a network is zero
.  FTP, name these laws of electric circuits formulated by a nineteenth century German scientist.
\par \tab Answer: _Kirchhoff's_ Laws
\par 
\par 3.  His last words were "Let us cross over the river and rest under the shade of the trees".  A professor of artillery and philosophy at VMI between 1851 and 1861, this Virginian was assisted during the Civil War by his cavalry commander, Turner Ashby.  H
e was victorious at Cedar Mountain, the Valley Campaign, and Second Manassas, before losing his life at Chancellorsville.  FTP, name this Confederate general.
\par \tab Answer: Thomas "Stonewall" _Jackson_
\par 
\par 4.  In 1841, he enrolled in the Law School of Paris, but signs of epilepsy caused him to withdraw from school one year later.  Better known as an author, this man wrote Salammbo, The Temptation of Saint Anthony, and Sentimental Education.  FTP, name this

\par French novelist, best known for his satire of middle-class society, Madame Bovary.
\par \tab Answer: Gustave _Flaubert_
\par 
\par 5.  In September of 1996, this man became the first person since OJ Simpson to be on the cover of Newsweek two weeks in a row.  A pollster for Bill Clinton during the 1980's and 1990's, his influence earned him a spot in the White House as Special Preside
ntial Advisor.  FTP, name this man, who made headlines recently for his longtime affair with Washington prostitute Sherry Rowlands.
\par \tab Answer: Dick _Morris_
\par 
\par 6.  In 1285, he tried to conquer Japan, but his fleet was destroyed by the kamikaze wind.  Five years earlier, he had founded the Yuan dynasty in China, which controlled an area of land from Russia to Burma.  FTP, identify this Mongol emperor, whose court
 may have been visited by Marco Polo.
\par \tab Answer: _Kublai Khan_
\par 
\par 7.  FAQTP, what is the smallest integer greater than one which is simultaneously a perfect cube and a perfect fourth power?
\par \tab Answer: _4096_ (=2 to the twelfth power)
\par 
\par 8.  This band grew out of collaborations while remixing U2, Depeche Mode, and Nine Inch Nails tunes.  The brainchild of Duke Erikson, Steve Marker, and Butch Vig, the band picked up its lead singer after seeing an Angelfish video on MTV.  FTP, name this b

\par and, fronted by Shirley Manson, which became popular wich such hits as "Stupid Girl" and "I'm Only Happy when it Rains".
\par \tab Answer: _Garbage_
\par 
\par 9.  The first section of this book is told by Benjy, an idiot, and the second by Quentin, a troubled Harvard student.  The third is by Jason, a greedy relative, and the last section is told by Dilsey, the family's black cook.  FTP, name this novel about t
he Compson family, which was written by William Faulkner.
\par \tab Answer: _The Sound and the Fury_
\par 
\par 10.  This theory was adapted after maggots were observed on meat and flies were seen on trash that had been left out.  Disproved by Pasteur in controlled experiments, this once widely-held belief held that living organisms can be produced by nonliving mat
ter.  FTP, name this discredited theory, often confused with biogenesis.
\par \tab Answer: _Spontaneous Generation_
\par 
\par 11.  Born in 1975 in Miami, Florida, he received the USA baseball junior player of the year award in 1993.  Playing for Tacoma in 1995, he hit .360 and was named Triple A's all-star shortstop by Baseball America.  This past season he hit .360 with 36 home
runs, earning an all-star spot from the Seattle Mariners.  FTP, name this exciting young player, winner of the 1996 AL batting crown.
\par \tab Answer: Alex _Rodriguez_
\par 
\par 12.  The illegitimate son of an Italian cardinal, he grew up in Valencia, Spain.  His father, Pope Alexander VI, made him commander of papal troops in 1496.  FTP, name this Italian, who carved out a small empire in Central Italy for his family, killed in 
battle in 1507 but immortalized as the model for Machiavelli's The Prince.
\par \tab Answer: Cesare _Borgia_
\par 
\par 13.  This 761,320 acre area, centered on the valley of the Merced river, was declared a state park in 1864, when Congress called it "the cleft or gorge in the granite peak."  It contains the Maripora grove of Sequoia redwoods, Glacier Peak, Half-dome, Bri
deveil Falls, and El Capitan.  FTP, name this national park in California.
\par \tab Answer: _Yosemite_ national park
\par 
\par 14.  It begins when Mr. Earnshaw brings home a boy he finds on the streets of Liverpool.  While Hindley hates the newcomer, Catherine falls in love with him, although she marries Edgar Linton.  FTP, identify this novel, which ends with Heathcliff gaining

\par control of the title house, written by Emily Bronte.
\par \tab Answer: _Wuthering Heights_
\par 
\par 15.  An American GI returns from World War II and reunites with his Republican family, which uses a Queen of Spades to trigger Chinese brainwashings.  The movie ends with the GI being instructed to assassinate the Presidential nominee at the Republican Na
tional Convention.  FTP, identify this 1962 film, directed by John Frankenheimer, and starring Lawrence Harvey, Janet Leigh, Frank Sinatra and Angela Lansbury.
\par \tab Answer: _The Manchurian Candidate_
\par 
\par 16.  In addition to his writing career, he is a noted guitarist, hunter, and war hero.  As a poet, he wrote Helmets, The Zodiac, and To the Last Wolverine, exploring the situation of the suburban man finding his primitive tribal values.  FTP, name this Am

\par erican author, best known for novels such as To The White Sea and Deliverance.
\par \tab Answer: James _Dickey_
\par 
\par 17.  He left a legal career in England when he went to South Africa in 1893.  Moving to India in 1915, he served as President of the National Congress for 10 years.  FTP, name this pacifist leader, assasinated in 1948 by a Hindu fanatic.
\par \tab Answer: Mohandas _Gandhi_
\par 
\par 18.  He lectured with Freud at Clark University in 1907, but broke with him in 1913.  This psychologist created the concepts of the libido, the introvert/extrovert distinction, and the collective unconscious.  FTP, name this Swiss founder of analytical ps
ychology.
\par \tab Answer: Carl _Jung_
\par 
\par 19.  In a formulation due to Clausius, this physical law holds that one cannot remove a quantity of heat from a low temperature and deliver it to a higher temperature while doing no work. In another formulation due to Kelvin, it asserts the impossibility 
of converting heat into work with 100 percent efficiency.  FTP, identify this law of thermodynamics, summed up in the statement "the entropy of the universe never decreases".
\par \tab Answer: the _second_ law of thermodynamics
\par 
\par 20.  Born in 1892, he painted camouflage for the doughboys during World War I.  Influenced by the works of Hans Holbein during a trip to Germany, he became a serious portrait painter, doing Woman with Plants in 1929.  FTP, name this American artist, who u
sed his sister Nan and his dentist as models for his painting of Iowa farmers, American Gothic.
\par \tab Answer: Grant _Wood_
\par 
\par \page 
\par Boni for round six :
\par 
\par 1.  For the stated number of points, calculate the following:
\par 10. The determinant of the two-by-two matrix with first row two, three and second row seven, ten.
\par 20. The determinant of the three-by-three matrix with first row one, one, zero, second row one, two, three, third row four, five, six.
\par \tab Answers : _negative one_; _three_
\par 
\par 2.  Identify the following characters from The Simpsons, for the stated number of points
\par 10.  The Simpson's family doctor, he is a ringer for Cliff Huxtable.
\par 5,5.  For five points each, give the names of Marge's two chain-smoking sisters.
\par 10.  The glue eating son of the police chief, he says that his "cat's breath smells like cat food."
\par \tab Answers : Julius _Hibbard_; _Patty_; _Selma_; _Ralph_ Wiggum
\par 
\par 3.  For ten points apiece, name these things concerning the Thirty Years War.
\par a) This young Swedish king led his army on an extended raid into Germany between 1628 and 1632.  He was killed at the battle of Lutzen.
\par b) This German mercenary who led Imperial troops for the majority of the war defeated Gustavus Adolphus at Lutzen.
\par c) This treaty ended the Thirty Years War in 1648.
\par \tab Answers : Gustavus _Adolphus_; Albrecht von _Wallenstein_;                   Treaty of _Westphalia_
\par 
\par 4.  For five points apiece and a five points bonus for all correct, identify the American authors of the following novels.
\par a) Maggie, a Girl of the Streets
\par b) Their Eyes were Watching God
\par c) East of Eden
\par d) McTeague
\par e) The 42nd Parallel
\par \tab Answers : Stephen _Crane_; Zora Neale _Hurston_; John _Steinbeck_; Frank _Norris_; John _Dos Passos_
\par 
\par 5.  For ten points apiece, name the mineral given a description.
\par a) Also known as Rock Salt, this mineral has a chemical composition of NaCl.
\par b) This widespread mineral, found in limestone, has a chemical composition of CaCO3.
\par c) The most abundant and common mineral, this silica-rich mineral occurs in granite.
\par \tab Answers: _Halite_; _Calcite_; _Quartz_
\par 
\par 6.  For five points apiece and a five point bonus for all correct, name the Major League Soccer Team given two players from the team:
\par a) John Harkes, Marco Etcheverry
\par b) Alexi Lalas, Jim St. Andre
\par c) Paul Caliguri, Brian McBride
\par d) Jorge Campos, Cobi Jones
\par e) Carlos Valderrama, Roy Lassiter
\par \tab Answers: _DC United_; _New England Revolution_; _Columbus Crew_; _Los Angeles Galaxy_; _Tampa Bay Mutiny_
\par 
\par 7.  Name these things concerning Watergate for the stated number of points :
\par 5. This current radio broadcaster masterminded the hotel break-in in 1972.
\par 10. The breakin was designed to get papers from the Democratic National Convention, which had nominated this man for the presidency.
\par 15. This Attorney General resigned during the Saturday Night Massacre rather than fire Special Prosector Archibald Cox.
\par \tab Answers: G. Gordon _Liddy_; George _McGovern_; Elliot _Richardson_
\par 
\par 8.  Name these modern artists for ten points apiece after a description of one of their wacky works.
\par a) This artist of "Nude Descending a Staircase" once submitted a work entitled "Fountain" to the Metropolitan Museum of Art.  "Fountain" was just an ordinary urinal.
\par b) This surrealist painter from Belgium once painted a picture of a pipe that was titled "This is not a pipe."
\par c) This Hungarian modern artist has covered the Reichstag and various islands in colorful plastic wrap.
\par \tab Answers: Marcel _Duchamp_; Rene _Magritte_; _Christo_
\par 
\par 9.  Identify the following Hindu texts FTP each.
\par a)  This enormous epic poem tells the story of the war between the Pandavas and Kauravas.
\par b)  Part of the Mahabharata, it is a discussion between Arjuna and his charioteer, Krishna.
\par c)  This epic poem is ascribed to Valmiki and relates the history of ancient India, centering on the seventh incarnation of Vishnu.
\par \tab Answers : _Mahabharata_; _Bhagavad Gita_; _Ramayana_
\par 
\par 10.  Name game time!  I will describe two works of literature -- when put together, the two titles will create a single phrase.  An example of a correct response might be "A Doll's House of the Seven Gables". These are all ten points apiece, and you must

\par give the whole phrase to receive any points.
\par a) A play by Lorraine Hansbury, and a book by Ernest Hemingway with the characters of Jake Barnes and Lady Brett Ashley.
\par b) A short story by Ambrose Bierce concerning Peyton Farquar, and a sad novel by Katherine Ann Paterson.
\par c) A play by Arthur Miller concerning the Lomans, and a play by George Bernard Shaw concerning John Tanner.
\par \tab Answers: _A Raisin in the Sun also Rises_; _An Occurence at Owl Creek Bridge to Terabithia_; _Death of a Salesman and Superman_
\par 
\par 11.  Given a definition, identify the term from astronomy FTP each.
\par a)  The time between the culmination of the first point of Aries and the culmination of a celestial object.
\par b)  The reflectivity of a non-luminous object; 100 per cent would be a perfect reflector.
\par c)  Only a total of 59 percent of the lunar surface can be observed from Earth because of this effect, caused by the side to side wobbling of the Moon.
\par \tab Answers : _right ascension_; _albedo_; _libration_
\par 
\par 12.  FTP apiece, name the MTV personality given a brief description:
\par a) This man teams up with Jenny McCarthy to host "Singled Out."
\par b) This red-headed MTV news anchor has been romantically linked with David Pirner, the lead singer of Soul Asylum.
\par c) This former host of MTV Sports had an extended cameo on Melrose Place in 1995.
\par \tab Answers: Chris _Hardwick_; Tabitha _Soren_; Dan _Cortese_
\par 
\par 13.  Answer the following questions about Indian rulers, for the stated number of points.
\par 10.  He conquered Russia, Persia, India and much of Asia during the late 1300s.
\par 5.  This Mogul emperor built the Taj Mahal.
\par 15.  Considered the greatest Muslim emperor of India, he ruled from 1566 to 1605.
\par \tab Answers : _Tamerlane_; Shah _Jahan_; _Akbar_
\par 
\par 14.  Identify the English poets who wrote the following, for the stated number of points.
\par 5.  Ode on a Grecian Urn
\par 10.  My Last Duchess
\par 15.  The Rape of the Lock
\par \tab Answers : John _Keats_; Robert _Browning_; Alexander _Pope_
\par 
\par 15.  Most western languages have as their main greeting a phrase which translates as good day.  For the stated number of points, give this phrase in each of the following languages.
\par 5. Spanish
\par 5. French
\par 10. Italian
\par 10. German
\par \tab Answers : _Buenos Dias_; _Bonjour_; _Buongiorno_; _Guten Tag_
\par 
\par 16.  For fifteen points each, identify these terms from economics.
\par a) This economic indicator measures the changing cost of a fixed "market basket" of goods and services over time.
\par b) This curve shows the percent of total income received by a
\par given percentage of recipients, whose incomes are arranged from smallest to largest.
\par \tab Answers : _consumer price index_; _Lorenz_ curve
\par 
\par 17.  Identify the capitals of the following African nations FTP each.
\par a)  Malawi
\par b)  Namibia
\par c)  Angola
\par \tab Answers : _Lilongwe_; _Windhoek_; _Luanda_
\par 
\par 18.  FTP each, identify these delegates to the Constitutional convention.
\par a)  This Pennsylvania delegate talked more than anyone else during the convention, as well as doing the actual writing of the Constitution.
\par b)  He orchestrated the Connecticut Compromise.
\par c)  He presented the Virginia Plan and went on to refuse to sign the Constitution because it lacked a Bill of Rights.
\par \tab Answers : Gouvernor _Morris_; Roger _Sherman_; Edmund Randolph_
\par 
\par 19.  For five points each and five more for all correct, name the phylum to which the following organisms belong:
\par a) Humans
\par b) Sponges
\par c) Crabs, spiders, and grasshoppers
\par d) Starfish and sea urchins
\par e) Corals, jellyfish, and sea anemones
\par \tab Answers: _chordata_; _porifera_; _arthropoda_; _echinodermata_; _cnidaria_
\par 
\par 20.  Identify the authors of the following Latin classics FTP each.
\par a)  Metamorphoses and Ars Amatoria
\par b)  On the Nature of Things
\par c)  The Satyricon
\par \tab Answers : _Ovid_; _Lucretius_; _Petronius_
\par }}