{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f123\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f124\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f126\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f127\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f128\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f135\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f136\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f138\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f139\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f140\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title Cavalier Classic 1996}{\author Jason Hong}
{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min22}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min22}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords1961}{\nofchars11178}{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws13727}{\vern71}}
\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale110\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0 Cavalier Classic 1996
\par Quarterfinals
\par 
\par Tossups :
\par 
\par 1.  With the support of the Roman aristocracy, he was elected consul in 63 B.C. In 58 B.C. he was banished by the First Triumvirate, and he was killed uponorders of the Second Triumvirate in 43 BC.  In his literary works he explored 
such ideas as friendship, as in De Amicitia, religion, as in De Natura Decorum, and government, as in De Republic.  FTP, name this Roman orator and statesman.
\par \tab Answer:  _Cicero_
\par 
\par 2.  This group recently released an enhanced CD album, which allows users to set sail on the Sea of Punch, through Pong Hell and a Space Farm, which includes flying saucers, chickens and pigs. FTP, name the band responsible for "Tales from the Punchbowl,"
 whose earlier albums include "Sailing the Seas of Cheese" and "Pork Soda".
\par \tab Answer: _Primus_
\par 
\par 3.  In the 10th century this region was conquered by the Magyars and in 1526 it became part of the Ottoman Empire.  Transferred from Hungary to Romania at the end of World War II, this area has rich deposits of iron, lead, and 
natural gas.  Its greatest notoriety, however, results from its being home to Vlad the Impaler.  FTP, name this region.
\par \tab Answer:  _Transylvania_
\par 
\par 4.  For his efforts in support of the Boer War, he was knighted in 1902.  After opening a medical practice in 1882, he began to write while waiting for patients.  Beginning with "A Study in Scarlet," he produced 4 novels and 56 short stories about Sherloc
k Holmes.  FTP, name this author.
\par \tab Answer:  Arthur Conan _Doyle_
\par 
\par 5.  In most vertebrates it helps regulate daily and seasonal body cycles.  In humans it is located near the center of the brain and has been linked to reproductive processes.  FTP, identify this part of the body, a gland which helps the body adjust to lig
ht and time changes by secreting melatonin.  .
\par \tab Answer:  _pineal_ gland
\par 
\par 6.  Born in Philadelphia, this performer began a vaudeville career at the age of 14.  Although he appeared in silent films, he gained fame in talkies such as The Old-Fashioned Way, My Little Chickadee, The Bank Dick, and Never Give a Sucker an Even Break.
 FTP, name this comedian, known for his huge nose and disdain for children and animals.
\par \tab Answer:  W.C. _Fields_
\par 
\par 7.  Native to Central America, this fruit grows on thin, palm-like plants that reach heights of 35 feet.  Rich in vitamins A and C, they are cooked like squash when unripe and used in jellies, pies, and salads when mature.  The immature fruit is useful be
cause it contains papain, an enzyme used as a meat tenderizer.  FTP, name this fruit with a brown skin and orange flesh.
\par \tab Answer:  _papaya_
\par 
\par 8.  In 1969 Richard Nixon appointed her to be the executive director of the President's Committee on Consumer Interests.  In 1983 Ronald Reagan named her Secretary of Transportation.  In 1989 she became Secretary of Labor.  FTP, name this woman, who marri
ed Bob Dole in 1975.
\par \tab Answer:  _Elizabeth Dole_
\par 
\par 9.  On January 1, 1600, Queen Elizabeth I granted a charter to a group of men who wanted to make money in the spice trade.  After establishing trading centers at Fort St. George and Fort William, this company became dominant under the leadership of Robert
 Clive.  FTP, name this organization, which lasted until 1833, and was ruled from London and from Calcutta.
\par \tab Answer: _British East India Company_
\par 
\par 10.  After graduating from Oxford in 1608, he travelled to Europe where he met Galileo. In the 1650s he published his trilogy on natural philosophy: Concerning Body, Concerning Man, and Concerning the Citizen.  FTP, identify this philosopher, best known f
or The Elements of Law, Natural and Politic and Leviathan.
\par \tab Answer:  Thomas _Hobbes_
\par 
\par 11.  Occuring in minerals such as hutchinsonite and lorandite, this element was discovered by William Crookes in 1861.  While exposure to it may cause nerve damage and death in humans, the element is found in compounds used to detect certain types of hear
t disease.  FTP, name this bluish-gray metal with atomic number 81 and atomic symbol Tl.
\par \tab Answer:  _thallium_
\par 
\par 12.  In 1949 he was injured in an automobile crash that fractured his collarbone, ankle, pelvis, and a rib.  A year later he won the U.S. Open while playing heavily bandaged.  During his career he won more than 60 tournaments including 4 U.S. Opens, 3 P.G
.A. Championships, 2 Masters, and a British Open.  FTP, name this golfer.
\par \tab Answer:  Ben _Hogan_
\par 
\par 13.  It begins when Harry Bailly, the host of Tabard Inn, agrees to serve as the judge of a story-telling contest whose winner will receive a free meal.  The first to go is the knight, who tells the story of Palamon and Arcite; he is followed by the Mille
r, Reeve, and twenty one others.  FTP, identify this unfinished collection of poems, written between 1387 and 1400 by Geoffrey Chaucer.
\par \tab Answer : the _Canterbury Tales_
\par 
\par 14.  Although trained as a lawyer, he managed a farm.  Arguing that horse-drawn hoes could loosen the soil and aid the irrigation of crops, he published The New Horse Houghy Husbandry in 1731.  In 1701 he produced his greatest innovation, a seed drill tha
t dropped seeds in uniform rows.  FTP, name this English agriculturist, who gave his name to Ian Anderson's band.
\par \tab Answer:  Jethro _Tull_
\par 
\par 15.  The first of these began operating in Wuppertal, Germany in 1902 and is still in use today.  The first American one was built in 1957 at Disneyland.  More efficient than elevated or subway lines, these systems feature cars that run above or below a s
ingle track.  FTP, name this type of railroad.
\par \tab Answer:  _monorail_
\par 
\par 16.  He married Megara, daughter of the king of Thebes, but was driven mad by Juno and killed her along with their children.  To do penance, he served King Eurystheus for twelve years, performing feats such as capturing the Erymanthian boar and killing th
e three headed Geryon.  FTP, identify this great hero, who also killed the Nemean lion, the Stymphalian birds, and the Hydra during the course of his twelve labors.
\par \tab Answer : _Hercules_ (accept _Heracles_)
\par 
\par 17.  His lesser known works include The Woods, Lone Canoe, and A Life in the Theater.  After making his name with Sexual Perversity in Chicago, he made his Broadway debut with American Buffalo, the story of the theft of a coin collection.  FTP, name this

\par American playwright, who won a Pulitzer Prize for Glengarry Glen Ross.
\par \tab Answer : David _Mamet_
\par 
\par 18.  He became a general at the age of 34, following heroic exploits in Morocco. Returning from the Canary Islands, he took command of all Nationalist forces in Spain in 1936.  Leading his forces to victory in the Spanish Civil War, he 
ruled the nation as generalissimo until his death in 1975.  FTP, name this longtime Spanish dictator.
\par \tab Answer:  Francisco _Franco_
\par 
\par 19.  FAQTP, what is the number of distinct positive integer divisors of the number obtained by multiplying eight, nine, and twenty-five?
\par \tab Answer: _36_
\par 
\par 20.  At the age of 15, he was appointed to tune the organ at Westminster Abbey. Appointed an organist of the Chapel Royal eight years later, he began to write music such as "Welcome Songs" and his odes for St. Cecilia's Day for the royal court.  In 1689 h
e composed the opera Dido and Aeneas.  FTP, name this British composer.
\par \tab Answer:  Henry _Purcell_
\par 
\par \page Boni for quarterfinals :
\par 
\par 1.  Name the authors of these works of children's literature FTP each.
\par a)  Hans Brinker; or, the Silver Skates
\par b)  Where the Wild Things Are
\par c)  Peter Pan
\par \tab Answers:  Mary Maples _Dodge_; Maurice _Sendak_; Sir James _Barrie_
\par 
\par 2.  Name the African nation associated with the following leaders for 5 points each and a bonus five for all correct.
\par a) Jomo Kenyatta
\par b) Gamal Nasser
\par c) Sese Mobutu
\par d) Idi Amin
\par e) Mu'ammar Gaddafi
\par \tab Answers: _Kenya_; _Egypt_; _Zaire_; _Uganda_; _Libya_
\par 
\par 3.  Name the Nazis FTP each.
\par a) This SS officer responsible for transporting Jews to concentration camps was captured in Argentina in 1960 and executed in Israel in 1962.
\par b) This leader of the Luftwaffe committed suicide before his scheduled execution in 1946.
\par c) Hitler's deputy party leader until his 1941 flight to Scotland, he was confined to Spandau prison until his death in 1987.
\par \tab Answers: Adolf _Eichmmann_; Hermann _Goering_; Rudolf _Hess_
\par 
\par 4.  Name the 19th century European novels in which these characters appear, FTP each.
\par a) Julien Sorel
\par b) Raskolnikov
\par c) Miss Havisham
\par \tab Answers: _The Red and the Black_; _Crime and Punishment_; _Great Expectations_
\par 
\par 5.  Name the noted African-Americans FTP each.
\par a) A congresswoman from New York from 1969 to 1983, she was the first black women to run for the presidency.
\par b) Field director for the NAACP in Mississipppi, he was assassinated in 1963.
\par c) Ambassador to the UN in the Carter administration, he served as mayor of Atlanta from 1982 to 1990.
\par \tab Answers: Shirley _Chisholm_; Medgar _Evers_; Andrew _Young_
\par 
\par 6.  Identify the following documents from 19th century American history, FTP each.
\par a)  This 1846 bill excluded slavery from territories won from Mexico.
\par b)  This document, written by three American ministers in 1854, stated that the United States would be justified in taking Cuba if Spain wouldn't sell.
\par c)  This act repealed the Missouri Compromise and legitimized the doctrine of popular sovereignty.
\par \tab Answers : _Willmot Proviso_; _Ostend Manifesto_; _Kansas-Nebraska_ Act
\par 
\par 7.  Identify the following diseases named after people FTP each.
\par a) A malignant disease of the lymphatic system, it was first described in 1832.
\par b) Disorder caused by degeneration of the basal ganglia, it is usually associated with muscle tremors.
\par c) Commonly known as leprosy, this disease is a chronic disorder of the skin and peripheral tissue.
\par \tab Answers: _Hodgkin's_ Disease; _Parkinson's_ Disease; _Hanson's_ Disease
\par 
\par 8.  Identify the American poets from works on a 15-10-5 basis.
\par 15)  Voices of the Night
\par 10)  Tales of a Wayside Inn
\par 5)  Evangeline
\par 15)  "Sonnet -- To Science"
\par 10)  "Israfel"
\par 5)  "Annabel Lee"
\par \tab Answers : Henry Wadsworth _Longfellow_; Edgar Allen _Poe_
\par 
\par 9.  Name these figures in American religious history for the stated number of points.
\par 5) In 1741 this Congregational theologian delivered his most famous sermon, "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God."
\par 15) Founder of the International Church of the Foursquare Gospel, she was allegedly kidnapped in 1926.
\par 10) Recovery from neck and back pain helped lead this woman to found the Christian Science movement.
\par \tab Answers: Jonathan _Edwards_; Aimee Semple _McPherson_; Mary Baker _Eddy_
\par 
\par 10.  Identify the 19th century artists who painted the following works FTP each.
\par a) The Raft of the Medusa
\par b) Luncheon on the Grass
\par c) Nocturne in Blue and Gold
\par \tab Answers: Theodore _Gericault_; Edouard _Manet_; James _Whistler_
\par 
\par 11.  Identify the common year, 30-20-10.
\par 30) Salazar begins his dictatorship in Portugal and the Museum of Modern Art is established in New York.
\par 20) The Lateran Treaty between Italy and the Vatican is signed and the St. Valentine's Day Massacre takes place.
\par 10) Hoover takes office and the stock market crashes.
\par \tab Answer: _1929_
\par 
\par 12.  Identify the authors of the following philosophical works for the stated number of points.
\par 5)  Critique of Pure Reason
\par 10)  The Myth of Sisyphus
\par 15)  Beyond Good and Evil
\par \tab Answers: Immanuel _Kant_; Albert _Camus_; Friedrich _Nietzsche_
\par 
\par 13.  Name the inventors of the following forms of transportation FTP each.
\par a) hot air balloon, first used in 1782.
\par b) glider, first successfully flown in 1893.
\par c) helicopter, first produced in 1939.
\par \tab Answers: _Montgolfier_; Otto _Lilienthal_; Igor _Sikorsky_
\par 
\par 14.  Identify the states in which the following landmarks are located FTP each.
\par a) Greenfield Village
\par b) Fort Worth Stockyards
\par c) Fort Kearney
\par \tab Answers: _Michigan_; _Texas_; _Nebraska_
\par 
\par 15.  Answer these questions about blood FTP each.
\par a) Also known as thrombocytes, these disk-shaped structures help stop bleeding.
\par b) This type of white blood cell respond to disease bacteria and are divided into 2 major types, B and T cells.
\par c) This oxygen-carrying protein gives red blood cells their color.
\par \tab Answers:  _platelets_; _lymphocytes_; _hemoglobin_
\par 
\par 16.  Stadiums are getting renamed every day.  FTP each, identify the recently-renamed stadium which houses the following NFL teams.
\par a)  Carolina Panthers
\par b)  San Francisco 49ers
\par c)  Miami Dolphins
\par \tab Answers : _Ericcson_ Stadium; _3COM_ Park; _Proplayer_ Park
\par 
\par 17.  Identify the musical artist 30-20-10 from albums given.
\par 30) For You, Controversy
\par 20) Lovesexy, Around the World in a Day
\par 10) 1999, Purple Rain
\par \tab Answer:  _Prince_ (accept the _artist formerly known as Prince_)
\par 
\par 18.  FTP each, calculate these integrals.
\par a) The integral from one to three of one over x, dx.
\par b) The integral from zero to one of one over the quantity two x plus one.
\par c) The integral from zero to one of the natural logarithm of x.
\par \tab Answers: _ln 3_, or the _natural logarithm of three_; _one-half ln 3_; _-1_
\par 
\par 19.  Name the directors of the following pairs of films for the stated number of points.
\par 10) "Stagecoach", "The Grapes of Wrath"
\par 5) "Citizen Kane," "The Lady from Shanghai"
\par 15) "The Lost Weekend", "Some Like It Hot"
\par \tab Answers: John _Ford_; Orson _Welles_; Billy _Wilder_
\par 
\par 20.  Translate the names of these classical works FTP each.
\par a) Le Quattro Stagioni (LAY KWAH-troe STAH-joe-nee)
\par b) Eine Kleine Nachtmusik (EYE-nuh KLIE-nuh NAHCHT-moo-zeek)
\par c) L'apprenti du Sorcier (LA-praw-ntee DOO sore-syay)
\par \tab Answers : _The Four Seasons_; _A Little Night Music_; _The Sorceror's Apprentice_
\par }}