{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f123\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f124\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f126\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f127\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f128\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f135\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f136\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f138\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f139\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f140\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title Cavalier Classic 1996}{\author Jason Hong}
{\operator Jason Hong}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min18}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy21\hr17\min18}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords2289}{\nofchars13048}{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws16023}{\vern71}}
\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale110\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0 Cavalier Classic 1996
\par Semifinals
\par 
\par 1.  Although he was an uneducated tailor, he served as governor of Tennessee and a member of the House of Representatives. Later, in the Senate, he was the only member from the eleven seceding states to remain loyal to the Union when the Civil War broke o
ut. As President, he was impeached for trying to dismiss Edwin Stanton. FTP, name this seventeenth president of the United States.
\par \tab Answer: Andrew _Johnson_
\par 
\par 2.  In his 88 years, this man was both a nineteenth-century novelist and a twentieth century poet.  His famous poems, such as "Channel Firing" and "The Darkling Thrush,"  were written after he abandoned prose because of the public outcry against his novel
 Jude the Obscure.  FTP, name this man who also wrote The Mayor of Casterbridge and The Return of the Native.
\par \tab Answer: Thomas _Hardy_
\par 
\par 3.  Rudolph Giuliani defended him from charges of wrongdoing, while Maryland's governor suggested that he was part of a criminal conspiracy. Yankees' manager Joe Torre bemoaned a dangerous precedent, and Reggie Jackson criticized his
 fielding skills for failing to hold on to the ball.  FTP, name this 12 year old from Old Tappan, New Jersey, who turned Derek Jeter's fly ball in Game One of the American League championships into a home run.
\par \tab Answer: Jeffrey _Maier_
\par 
\par 4.  Copolymer 1, a new drug developed in Israel, may soon be approved by the FDA as a treatment for this autoimmune disease.  A replica of the protein in the sheaths of nerve cells, the drug acts as a decoy to keep white blood cells from attacking the she
ath.  FTP, name this degenerative disease which causes severe, painful attacks, eventually leading to paraplegia, and which is abbreviated as MS.
\par \tab Answer: _Multiple sclerosis_
\par 
\par 5.  Founded in 1993 by former baggage handler Robert Priddy, this company began with only two planes.  Today, it faces an FAA ruling which temporarily limits service to five cities and a lawsuit from a flight attendants' union.  FTP, name this discount ai
rline, whose super-cheap rates were part of its efforts to get back off the ground following a disastrous crash in the Florida Everglades.
\par \tab Answer: _ValuJet_
\par 
\par 6.  Dating from the second century B.C., it records the donations of Ptolemy V Epiphanes to the priests at Memphis.  Following work done by Thomas Young, a translation was published in 1822 by Jean Champollion.  FTP, identify this block of basalt, now loc
ated in the British Museum, which was written in Hellenistic Greek, hieroglyphics, and demotic Egyptian.
\par \tab Answer: the _Rosetta Stone_
\par 
\par 7.  Holiness, Temperance, Chastity, Friendship, Justice and Courtesy are the themes of this work's six books, each of which is also associated with a different knight.  FTP, name this 1596 poem, one of the longest in the English language, which revolves a
round a character named Gloriana, and which was written by Edmund Spenser.
\par \tab Answer: The _Faerie Queene_
\par 
\par 8.  Scientists at Yale are experimenting with ways to inject bacteria into a certain kind of fly, in the hope that they will destroy the parasites, known as trypanosomes, which the insects can inject into humans.  FTP, name this fly, found in sub-Saharan 
Africa, which spreads the disease known as sleeping sickness.
\par \tab Answer: _tsetse_ fly (SEET-see)
\par 
\par 9.  Wife of Lapidoth, she was a keeper of tabernacle lamps.  Alarmed by the Canaanite armies, this prophetess worked with Barak to form a battleplan against them.  Fighting near Mt. Tabor, their forces defeated the enemy in a fierce rainstorm.  FTP, name 
this woman, whose song of victory appears in Judges 5.
\par \tab Answer:  _Deborah_
\par 
\par 10.  After the lead singer went solo in 1986, three members formed their own group, while the other two had successful solo careers.  Originally discovered by Maurice Starr, who also gave the world New Kids on the Block, this group of childhood pals from 
Boston recenty reunited.  FTP, name this R&B group of Ralph Tresvant, Johnny Gill, Ronnie DeVoe, Michael Bivins, Ricky Bell, and Bobby Brown, back on the charts with the album Home Again.
\par \tab Answer: _New Edition_
\par 
\par 11.  Educated at Bowdoin and Harvard, he became a professor of zoology at Indiana University in 1920.  Professional curiosity led him to found the Institute for Sex Research at Indiana in 1942 and to conduct thousands of interviews 
concerning the sexual experience of individuals.  FTP, name this researcher, who published the results of these investigations in 1948 as Sexual Behavior in the Human Male.
\par \tab Answer:  Alfred _Kinsey_
\par 
\par 12.  Pencil and paper ready. Take the smallest perfect number and divide it by the largest even prime. Add the result to the number of faces of an icosahedron, and multiply that sum by the x-intercept of the line, y equals two x minus four. FTP, what is t
he result?
\par \tab Answer: _46_
\par 
\par 13.  When Ward McAllister wrote that "there are only about 400 people in New York society," this writer responded with a short story collection called The Four Million, referring to the population of the entire city.  FTP, name author of "The Clarion Call
," "The Last Leaf," and "The Gift of the Magi",  an ex-convict whose real name was William Sydney Porter.
\par \tab Answer: O. _Henry_
\par 
\par 14.  Her first two husbands were Edward Borough, who died when she was 17, and John Neville, who died in 1542.  After the death of her third husband, she married Sir Thomas Seymour, and lived with him at the royal court until dying after childbirth in 154
8.  FTP, identify this English queen, who mitigated religious persecution under the Act of the Six Articles and helped restore Mary and Elizabeth to favor as the wife of Henry VIII from 1543 until his death.
\par \tab Answer: Catherine _Parr_
\par 
\par 15.  Situated near the Romanian border, this city is located 32 miles southwest of the mouth of the Dnepr (dah-NEE-per) River.  A seaport on the Black Sea, it is famous for its harbor, site of the "Potemkin" mutiny during the Russian Revolution of 1905. 
FTP, name this city in the Ukraine.
\par \tab Answer:  _Odessa_
\par 
\par 16.  As a young man, he served as as assistant to Lorenzo Ghiberti.  From 1416 to 1420, he carved a marble St. George as well as the relief St. George Killing the Dragon.  FTP, name this sculptor, best known for his 3 statues of David, the most famous of 
which is a bronze work dating from the 1430s.
\par \tab Answer:  _Donatello_
\par 
\par 17.  It begins with the two friends trying to cure warts with a dead cat in a cemetery.  After Muff Potter is wrongly accused of a murder they witness, they flee to Jackson's Island, but return to Potter's trial to attest that the murderer was Injun Joe.
 FTP, identify this 1876 novel, which ends with the title character and his girl, Becky Thatcher, getting lost in a cave, a work by Mark Twain.
\par \tab Answer: the _Adventures of Tom Sawyer_
\par 
\par 18.  His nickname was derived from his official attire as abbot of St. Martin of Tours.  Selected by election after the death of Louis the Do-Nothing, he had little power, and the throne would have remained elective after his death if he had not crowned h

\par is son king during his lifetime by cooptation.  FTP, identify this grandson of Henry the Fowler, who became king of France in 987 as the first Capetian ruler.
\par \tab Answer: _Hugh_ Capet
\par 
\par 19.  In 1845, he presided over an experiment in Utrecht in which a train full of trumpeters sped past a group of musicians with perfect pitch.  His work was developed by Arnand Fizeau, and Huggins first observed in with the star Sirius.  FTP, identify thi
s Austrian physicist, best known for his 1842 discovery that the frequency of waves changes depending on whether the source is moving toward or away from the observer, an effect named for him.
\par \tab Answer: Christian _Doppler_
\par 
\par 20.  Made of bronze, it is 13 and a half inches high, six and a half inches wide, and 14 inches long.  Designed by Frank Eliscu, it was first presented in 1935 to players east of the Mississippi, although players across the country became eligible a year 
later.  FTP, identify this award, whose recent recepients have included Andre Ware, Gino Toretta, Charlie Ward, and Eddie George, presented annually to the best college football player.
\par \tab Answer: _Heisman_ trophy
\par 
\par \page 
\par Boni for semifinals :
\par 
\par 1.  30-20-10, identify the author.
\par (30)    The violent death of his great-grandfather, a colonel and author of The White Rose of Memphis, provided him with material for two of his novels.
\par (20)    Works by this man include The Reivers, Pylon, and Sartoris.
\par (10)    He set several of his works in fictional Yoknapatawpha County.
\par 
\par \tab Answer: William _Faulkner_
\par 
\par 2.  Identify the following geological periods, FTP each.
\par a)  Divided into the Pridoli, Ludlow, Wenlock, and Llandovery epochs, the first leafless land plants appeared during this period.
\par b)  The first amphibians and insects appeared in this period, which saw the formation of the Urals and Appalachians.
\par c)  Consisting of the Pennsylvanian and Mississippian epochs, this period is noted for enormous swamps and evergreen forests.
\par 
\par Answers : _Silurian_; _Devonian_; _Carboniferous_
\par 
\par 3.  Answer the questions about Turkey FTP each.
\par a) This empire dominated Turkey from 1326 to 1918.
\par b) This reformer served as president of Turkey from 1923 to 1938.
\par c) This ethnic group which makes up 10% of Turkey's population predominates in the southeastern mountainous areas.
\par 
\par Answers: _Ottoman_; Kemal _Ataturk_; _Kurds_
\par 
\par 4.  FTP each, answer these questions about the psychological process known as conditioning.
\par a) Pavlov pioneered this type of conditioning, in which the presentation of a particular stimulus signals the occurrence of a reinforcer, as when a dog salivates in response to a bell.
\par b) In the second type of conditioning, the delivery of a reinforcer depends on the subject performing a particular action, such as a rat pressing a lever to receive a piece of cheese.
\par c) The most famous example of operant conditioning is a box developed by this American psychologist, associated with behaviorism.
\par 
\par \tab Answer: _classical_ conditioning; _operant_ or _instrumental_      conditioning; Burrhus Frederick _Skinner_
\par 
\par 5.  Identify the capitals of the following former Soviet republics for the stated number of points.
\par 5) Belarus
\par 10) Estonia
\par 15) Tajikistan
\par 
\par Answers : _Minsk_; _Talinn_; _Dushanbe_
\par 
\par 6.  Given the top ten hit from the 80's, name the artist or band that sang it, FFP each.
\par a)  "Ghostbusters"
\par b)  "Don't You Want Me"
\par c)  "Here I Go Again"
\par d)  "Jessie's Girl"
\par e)  "Man Eater"
\par f)  "Do That To Me One More Time"
\par 
\par Answers : Ray _Parker_ Jr.; _Human League_; _Whitesnake_;            Rick _Springfield_; _Hall and Oates_;
\par              _Captain and Tennille_
\par 
\par 7.  Three standard six-sided dice are thrown.
\par 5,5) For five points each, what are the two most likely values for the sum of the three dice?
\par 20) For twenty points, what is the probability that the sum of the three dice equals five?
\par 
\par Answers: _10_ and _11_; _6/216_ or _1/36_
\par 
\par 8.  FTP each, identify these plays by Shakespeare.
\par a) When the philanthropic title character loses his fortune, he becomes a misanthrope and a hermit. Stumbling upon buried treasure, he then finances an invasion of his former home town by the general Alcibiades.
\par b) In this comedy, the ruler of Vienna appoints a stern deputy to enforce traditional laws. The deputy abuses his authority to circumvent those laws, while the duke watches in disguise.
\par c) During a lull in the Trojan War, a prince of Troy loses his true love to a prisoner exchange, after which it is discovered she has been unfaithful to him.
\par 
\par Answers : _Timon of Athens_; _Measure for Measure_; _Troilus            and Cressida_
\par 
\par 9.  Identify the following Supreme Court justices FTP each.
\par a) Known as the Great Dissenter, he served on the court from 1902 to 1932.
\par b) The first Catholic on the court, he served from 1836 to 1864.
\par c) He chaired the federal commission that investigated the assassination of John F. Kennedy.
\par 
\par Answers: Oliver Wendell _Holmes_; Roger _Taney_; Earl                       _Warren_
\par 
\par 10.  Give the equivalent of the word "Tomorrow" in each of the following languages FTP each.
\par a) Spanish
\par b) French
\par c) German
\par 
\par Answers : _Manana_; _Demain_; _Morgen_
\par 
\par 11.  Give the common scientific term, 30-20-10.
\par 30)  In chemistry, it refers to unstable species trapped in an unreactive substrate, like free radicals in solid argon.
\par 20)  In geology, it is a fine-grained rock in which coarser-grained material is embedded.
\par 10)  In mathematics, it is a set of elements arranged in a rectangular array.
\par 
\par \tab Answer: _matrix_
\par 
\par 12.  FTP each, identify the following novels from their first lines; if you need the author, you will only receive five points.
\par 10) "I am a sick man.  I am an angry man.  I am an unattractive man."
\par 5)  Fyodor Dostoyevsky
\par 10) "It was love at first sight."
\par 5)  Joseph Heller
\par 10)  "Under certain circumstances there are few hours in life more agreeable than the hour dedicated to the ceremony known as afternoon tea."
\par 5)  Henry James
\par 
\par \tab Answer:  _Notes from (the) Underground_; _Catch-22_; The                    _Portrait of a Lady_
\par 
\par 13.  Name the popes FTP each.
\par a) As pope from 1087 to 1099, he called for the 1st crusade.
\par b) The longest-serving pontiff, he was in office from 1846 to 1878.
\par c) Pope from 1958 to 1963, he called the 2nd Vatican Council.
\par 
\par Answers: _Urban II_; _Pius IX_; _John XXIII_
\par 
\par 14.  The Nobel Prize for chemistry was recently awarded to two scientists from Rice University for their 1985 discovery of a new form of elemental carbon. For ten points each, name the scientists and the term for what they discovered.
\par 
\par Answers : Robert _Curl_; Richard _Smalley_; _buckyballs_ or                  _fullerenes_ or _buckminsterfullerenes_
\par 
\par 15.  As you know, not every film that won the Best Picture Oscar has earned its director the Oscar as well.  Given a year and the Best Picture winner, name the director who actually won the Oscar, FTP each.  If you need the film he directed, you'll only g

\par et five points..
\par 10)  Chariots of Fire, 1981
\par 5)  Reds
\par 10)  In The Heat of the Night, 1967
\par 5)  The Graduate
\par 10)  The Greatest Show on Earth, 1952
\par 5)  The Quiet Man
\par 
\par Answers : Warren _Beatty_; Mike _Nicholls_; John _Ford_
\par 
\par 16.  Name the opera from a brief description FTP each.
\par a) Set in Seville in 1820, it portrays the love of Don Jose for a beautiful gypsy.
\par b) This Wagner opera depicts a sailor condemnded to sail his ship until he is redeemed by a faithful woman.
\par c) An American naval officer marries and then deserts a Japanese geisha girl.
\par 
\par Answers: _Carmen_; _The Flying Dutchman_; _Madame Butterfly_
\par 
\par 17.  Given the acronym of an United Nations agency, identify what it stands for, for the stated number of points.
\par 5)  WHO
\par 5)  UNICEF
\par 10)  IAEA
\par 10)  UNHCR
\par 
\par Answers : _World Health Organization_; _United Nations                       Children's Fund_; _International Atomic Energy
\par                 Association_; _United Nations High Commissioner
\par              for Refugees_
\par 
\par 18.  Answer the following questions about the ABL, whose inaugural season began less than two weeks ago, FTP each.
\par a)  First, what does ABL stand for?
\par b)  What US National team, and former USC, star turned down an ABL contract to pursue a modeling career?
\par c)  What Olympic long jumper and Heptathlete recently signed with the Richmond Rage?
\par 
\par Answers : _American Basketball League_; Lisa _Leslie_; Jackie           _Joyner-Kersee_
\par 
\par 19.  Identify the South American authors from works on a 15-5 basis.
\par 15)  The Aleph
\par 5)  Labyrinths
\par 15)  Of Love and Other Demons
\par 5)  Love in the Time of Cholera
\par 
\par Answers : Jorge Luis _Borges_; Gabriel _Garcia Marquez_
\par 
\par 20.  Name the ruling house of the following English monarchs, FTP each.
\par a) George II
\par b) Mary
\par c) Richard the Lion-hearted
\par 
\par Answers: _Hanover_; _Tudor_; _Plantagenet_
\par }}