{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff36\stshfdbch0\stshfloch36\stshfhich36\stshfbi36\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f36\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}{\f246\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f247\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f249\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f250\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f251\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f252\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f253\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f254\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f606\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri CE;}{\f607\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Cyr;}{\f609\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Greek;}{\f610\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Tur;}
{\f613\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\sa200\sl276\slmult1
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 \styrsid3950118 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f36\fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \slink15 \styrsid5332209 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\*\cs15 \additive \b\f0\fs24\ul \sbasedon10 \slink1 \slocked \styrsid5332209 
Heading 1 Char;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 \slink17 \ssemihidden \styrsid3950118 Body Text;}{\*\cs17 \additive \f0\fs24 
\sbasedon10 \slink16 \slocked \ssemihidden \styrsid3950118 Body Text Char;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext18 \slink19 \styrsid3950118 Body Text 2;}{\*\cs19 \additive \f36 \sbasedon10 \slink18 \slocked \styrsid3950118 Body Text 2 Char;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 \styrsid3950118 Normal (Web);}}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0{\lsdlockedexcept Normal;heading 1;heading 2;heading 3;heading 4;heading 5;heading 6;heading 7;heading 8;heading 9;toc 1;toc 2;toc 3;toc 4;toc 5;toc 6;toc 7;toc 8;toc 9;caption;Title;Default Paragraph Font;Subtitle;Strong;Emphasis;Table Grid;}}
{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1908363\rsid3088407\rsid3833185\rsid3950118\rsid5332209\rsid5701664\rsid6620920\rsid9662706\rsid10224154\rsid12206094\rsid15603565\rsid16455011}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.5604;}{\info{\title 1}{\author JACOB}{\operator Ike}
{\creatim\yr2009\mo1\dy28\hr13\min43}{\revtim\yr2009\mo2\dy1\hr23\min55}{\version4}{\edmins4}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords3435}{\nofchars19584}{\*\company Hewlett-Packard}{\nofcharsws22974}{\vern24689}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1440\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\viewnobound1\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel
\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot3950118\newtblstyruls\nogrowautofit \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid9662706\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 1.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 He found some recognition as a writer of prose comedy with }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Portrait of the Artist as a Young Dog }{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 and in a 1954 radio play whose characters \'93...are not wholly bad or good, who live our lives under\'94
 the title object, according to one of its protagonists, the Reverend Eli Jenkins. His 1946 poetry collection }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Deaths and Entrances}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
 contained one of his most famous poems, which begins with the line \'93Now as I was young and easy under the apple boughs...\'94 and characterizes his youth in}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
 Swansea as as an idyllic, pastoral Eden. His most famous work}{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 is a 1952 villanelle in which he urges his elderly father to \'93
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.\'94 For ten points, name this Welsh author of such poems as }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Fern Hill, And Death Shall Have No Dominion}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  and }{
\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night.
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 ANSWER: Dylan }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Thomas
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 2.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 This nation contains Mt. Sikarim, while the Tilla Jogian and Sakaser are mountains in the Salt Range. Another mountain range in this nation sees C
oncordia, a joining of the Godwin-Austin and Baltoro Glaciers. This nation's smallest state contains the Kohalla Bridge over the Jhelum, while The Ravi River and }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
Chenab river help form the state of Punjab. Another state contains Thatta, and borders differe
nt country's Rajasthan, while the largest state is home to the Suleyman Mountains and Bolan Pass.  Sindh and Balochistan can be found in, for ten points, what country home to the Khyber Pass, and Islamabad?
\par ANSWER: Islamic Republic of}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Pakistan
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 {\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 3.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 This ph
ilosopher argued that every man who "tills the soil should have the power of obtaining a perpetuity on an impartial invaluation" when discussing the Irish Land Question.  He formulated a "method of differences" and a "method of residues" in his }{
\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 A System of Logic}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 , and used the phrase}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
 "tyranny of the majority" to build on a Bentham work He also argued that it is better for Socrates to be dissatisfied than a fool satisfied. For ten points, name this advocate of women's suffrage who wrote }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
On Liberty }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 and }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Utilitarianism}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 .
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 John Stuart }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Mill
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 4.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 A version of this in effect from 1980 to 1988 taxed the difference betw
een the market price and $18.50, and raised about $80 billion over its life.  Alaska passed a similar levy in 2007, pegged to increasing market prices, that levied about $6 billion from producers on the North Slope and elsewhere. }{
\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Barack Obama proposed one 
for the United States that would fall on companies like ConocoPhillips and ExxonMobil.  For ten points, name this proposed tax that would fall on oil companies perceived to be collecting excess money.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Windfall profits}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  tax on oil
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 5.  }{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 The generalized form of this equation includes a factor used to calculate the attraction between two particles and the volume excluded between them. The constant involved is identical to Boltzmann\rquote 
s constant, and it is derived from}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  Boyle\rquote s and Charles\rquote s Law. For ten poi
nts name this chemical equation that relates the product of pressure and volume with the product of the mole count, namesake constant and temperature of a particular phase of matter.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 ideal gas}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  law or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 universal gas}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  law
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 6.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Among the first teams to 
run this type of scheme was the Houston Oilers with Warren Moon, who ran the run and shoot.  A pass-first version was put in by LaVell Edwards at BYU and was quickly emulated across the WAC; run-first relatives of this formation include the Pistol current
ly used at Nevada.  More famous coaches that use it include}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
 Mike Leach, Rich Rodriguez, and Urban Meyer.  For ten points, name this football offense, which uses multiple receivers to stretch the defense and make it defend horizontal space.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Spread}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  offense (accept }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 run and shoot}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  before it is mentioned)
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 7.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
In Bellefonte, this organization plans to build an Advanced Pressurized Water Reactor. In Loudon County, it had earlier constructed the Tellico Dam. It was ruled to be legal in }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Ashwander}{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  v. this organization, and it was headed by David Lilienthal. Ronald Reagan criticized it in "A Time for Choosing," but this organization was founded in response to the great}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  depression to assist a particular drainage basin in the U.S. For ten points name this component of the New Deal program that operated in a namesake river and state.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 T}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 ennessee }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 V}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 alley }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 A}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 uthority
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid5701664\charrsid6620920 \page }{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 8.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 In one of his novels Oki Toshio meets with Otoko Ueno and in another Chieko\rquote s meets with what appears to be a clone of himself. He also describe
d teahouse owner Kikuji Mitani , and Shingo watching Tokyo age in the Kamakura era in the hands of the influential Ogata family. Another work sees}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
 Otake playing a six-month long match of the title game with the title figure. For ten points, name this novelist }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 of A Thousand Cranes, The Sound of the Mountain }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 and}{
\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  The Master of Go}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 .
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Kawabata}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  Yasunari
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 9.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 His son said that economists "offer placebos" instead of "sensible reforms," in addition to writing }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
The Predator State.}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920   He examined the Tulipomania and the 1987 stock market in }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 A Short History of Financial Euphoria}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
, and the countervailing power used to fight against market failures in }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 American Capitalism}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
. He analyzed the U.S. and Soviet Union becoming an entity that does not seek profit, called a technostructure, in his }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 The New}{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  Industrial State}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 . This economist coined "conventional wisdom" and depicted a society where resources abound. For tem points, name this author of }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 The Affluent Society}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 .}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Answer: John Kenneth}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Galbraith
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 {\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 10.  }{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 One of it
s rulers sought to capture his brother Geza and its first ruler set up the Diocese of Eger and Csanad. In addition to Bela and Stephen, both of whom were part of the Arpad dynasty, this country's independence was fought for by the}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  Zrinsky noble family and 
Rakoczi. A 20th century ruler from here succeeded Rakosi and replaced Hegedus as Prime Minister, and pleaded for help with "For Freedom and Truth. That man was Imre Nagy. For ten points, name this country that formed a dual monarchy with Austria.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Hungary
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 11.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
Like the Romans, he was renowned for plowing fields with salt, until Palamedes set his son in front of the plow.  He led a raid with Diomedes and beat Ajax in a contest that led to Ajax\rquote s death during the Trojan War.  A noted archer, he demons
trated his identity in one famous incident by shooting an arrow through}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
 12 axe rings.  Noted for cunning, he escaped such terrors as the Cyclopes, Circe, and Scylla and Charybidis.  For ten points, name this Greek warrior and father of Telemachus, who took
 ten years to get home to Ithaca after originating the Trojan Horse strategy.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Odysseus}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  (accept }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Ulysses}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 , I guess)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5701664 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid5701664\charrsid6620920 12. 
Tetracycline is the primary antibiotic for this illness. However, antibiotics are not enough and the primary treatment of this ill
ness is oral rehydration therapy. The illness itself is due to a gram-negative strain of bacteria that produces its namesake toxin and enterotoxin which attacks the mucosal epithelium of the small intestine which results in severe}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid5701664\charrsid6620920 
 diarrhea; the primary symptom. Other symptoms include pale fluid stools and dramatic fluid loss. First isolated by Filippo Pacini in 1854, FTP, identify this disease whose most recent pandemic killed 16,000 in Zimbabwe in fall 2008.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5701664\charrsid6620920 Cholera
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid5701664\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 13.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
This man gave his name to a differintegral modified by Caputo, a formula linking Euler characteristics involving a ramified surface, a lemma that relates Fourier transforms and L1 functions, a curvature tensor for modifying his namesake manifolds surfaces
 that can define holomorphic}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
 functions, a problem about the number of 0s and their occurrence in his namesake zeta-function, and a sum which gives the area under the curve. For ten points, name this mathematician, who gave his name to a famous mathemtatical hypothesis.
\par ANSWER: George Friedrich Bernhard}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Riemann}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 14.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 His first play involves the protagonist, Karl Moor, being disowned by his father the Duke on the advice of
 his villainous younger brother Franz, after which he commits himself to a life of crime against the established social order. That work, }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Die R\'e4uber}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
, reflects the author\rquote s resentment against his father\rquote s employer, Duke Karl Eugen of W\'fcrttemberg, who he viewed as a petty tyrant. His first experiment with blank verse was }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 1787\rquote s }{
\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Don Carlos}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 , which centered on the conflict between the title character and his father over the latter\rquote 
s third wife. Also a noted historian, he was given a professorship at the University of Jena, where he produced his most famous drama, }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Wallenstein}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
. For ten points, name this German romantic poet and author of }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 An Die Freude}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  (}{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Ode to Joy}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 ). 
\par ANSWER: Friedrich von }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Schiller}{\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 {\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 15.  }{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Among this man\rquote s works include }{
\b\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Years of Renewal,}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  }{\b\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Years of Upheaval, }{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
and }{\b\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Does America Need a Foreign Policy?}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 .  Earlier, his }{\b\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 The Necessity for Choice}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  helped design Kennedy administration policy as it warned of a missile gap between the US and the Soviet Union. His sharing of the 1973 Nobel Peace prize with }{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Le Duc Tho proved somewhat ironic, as this man was key to the toppling of Salvador Allende\rquote s Chilean government the same year. For ten points, identify this government official who achieved d\'e9
tente with the Soviets, and would later serve as Secretary of State under Nixon and Ford.
\par ANSWER: Henry }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Kissinger
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 16.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
One aria in this work ends by telling gods to " hear a mother's oath!" and reaches an F6 pitch. One character falls in love with a princess having seen her picture and sings "}{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  Dies Bildnis ist bezaubernd sch
\'f6n"}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  An old woman transforms herself into a young bride while at pyramids after one character sings " Ein M\'e4dchen oder Weibchen." At one point, the protagonists pass fire and}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  water ordeals with the title object. Ending with The Queen of the Night and Monostatos being cast, for ten points, Tamino must use the titular instrument in what Mozart opera?
\par ANSWER: The}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Magic Flute}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  or }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Die}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  }{
\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Zauberflote
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 17.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 One of the characters is described as \'93every barleycorn a king.\'94  Hired mourners 
or a priest figured into the procedure at the center of this story.  Another character, unlike her father, cannot leave things to chance and takes unprecedented steps to bend fate to her direction, as she moves her hand to the right at the climax.  The au
thor stated that he wrote an ending, but as he was neither semi-barbaric or a }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 woman, he didn\rquote t know if it was the right one. For ten points, name this eighteen-paragraph story, featuring the princess
\rquote s titular choice of fate for the man she loves, by Frank Stockton.
\par Answer: }{\b\i\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 The Lady, or the Tiger?}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 18.  }{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 The Rossi-Hall and Kennedy-Thorndike experiments provided evidence of this theory. Born's idea of rigidity in it was challenged by Ehrenfest's Paradox, and this theory uses Minkowski spaces. Introduced in }{
\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 On the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies, }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 it assumes that all uniform}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
 motion is relative, and that the speed of light is constant in a vacuum.}{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Predicting Length Contraction and Time Dilation, for ten points name this theory that links ene
rgy with mass, created by Einstein and contrasted with its general counterpart.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Special Relativity
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 19.  }{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
Berosus argues that this man died while fighting }{\b\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Dahae}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  archers, but he may have died against Queen Tomyris. Advised by Harpagus, he fought agai
nst Croesus at Thymbra and at Sardis, but this son of Mandane was also able to defeat Nabonidus, thus ending the}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
 Babylonian Empire. This ender of the Babylonian Captivity squared off against the Median and Lydian Empire, has a namesake Cylinder discussing how he pleased Marduk, For ten points, name this Achaemenid Empire founder that began the Persian Empire.

\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Cyrus II}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Cyrus the Great
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 20.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 In one of his paint
ings, Christ is the red blur of a spiritual being approaches an unmanned stringed instrument, and he designed the ceiling of the Paris Opera and the stage setting for }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 The Magic Flute.}{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  Beyond that painting,}{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  Fall of the Angel,}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  he designed the 4 seasons mosai
c at Chase Tower, and the windows for St. Stephens and Reims Cathedral. This painter of }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 The Rabbi of}{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  Vitebsk}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
, also showed a man with white lips holding up flowers to a goat. For ten points, name this Belarusian who inverted houses and a fiddler for }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 I and the Village}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 .
\par ANSWER: Marc}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Chagall
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5701664 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920  }{
\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sa200\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 \page 1.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid1908363\charrsid6620920 Name these equations }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
, for ten points each.
\par [10] }{\f0\fs20\insrsid1908363\charrsid6620920 Having integer coefficients, these}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  type of equations usually have hard-to-find integer solutions.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Diophantine}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  equation
\par [10] This type of equation, with degree 2, features a namesake formula whose discriminant is b squared minus 4ac.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 quadratic}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  equation
\par [10] This parabolic partial differential equation gives the distribution of the namesake quantity throughout materials throughout time.  
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Heat}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  Equation
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 {\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 2.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Dances, for ten points each..
\par [10] This Polish dance is written in 3 / 4 or 3 / 8 time like }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Swan Lake}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  and }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Coppelia.}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Mazurka}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par [10] This French dance is written in 3 / 4 time and are intended for two people. The Italian Variety is usually in 3 / 8 time.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Minuet}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par [10] Woodcuts and various medieval allegories illustrated this dance which shows the skeletons of commoners and nobility performing it. Saint-Saens orchestrated one the using xylophones.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Danse Macabre}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Dance of Death}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 3.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
He is accidentally circumcised with a fallen window frame. For ten points each,
\par [10] Name this character whose Life and Opinions title a Lawrence Sterne novel.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Tristram}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Shandy}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par [10] Lawrence Sterne also wrote about this type of journey which features a dwarf that threatens to castrate people. This type of Education is also the subject of a Flaubert novel.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Sentimental}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par [10] Another author who wrote about dwarfs was this one who described Oskar Matzerath in }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 The Tin Drum}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 .
\par }\pard \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 ANSWER: Gunter }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Grass
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 4.  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
For ten points each, name these Germanic peoples that inhabited Europe.
\par [10] These peoples were ruled by the Amali leaders Theodoric the Great and Athalaric. Other rulers included Witiges and Totila, a wager of namesake war against Belisarius.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Ostrogoths}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  (prompt on Goths)
\par [10] They had a capital at Saldae and invaded North Africa. Their leader Gaiseric, sacked Rome in 455 BC.
\par ANSWER:  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Vandals
\par }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 [10] The Romans avoided these ancient peoples of Scotland by constructing Hadrian\rquote s Wall. Their rulers included many named Drest and one named Eogan who fought against Vikings.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 {\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Pict}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 s
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 5.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Name some Muslim concepts, for ten points each.
\par [10] Performing this pilgrimage to Mecca is one of the Five Pillars of Islam.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Hajj}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par [10] This word refers to a non-Muslim who was allowed under Islamic law to practice his religion under the protection of the state.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Dhimmi}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par [10] This word means the art of deriving truth from the Muslim law of Sharia.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Fiqh}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3950118 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid5701664\charrsid6620920 \page }{
\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 6.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 In this dystopian story, Serena Joy supports the patriarchy and Moira is forced into prostitution. For 10 points each, 
\par [10] Name this 1985 novel where the enslaved protagonist Offred plays Scrabble with the General and escapes with the chauffer. \~
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Handmaid's Tale}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  
\par [10] Name its Canadian author}{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 , }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 who also wrote }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 The Edible Woman, Alias Grace }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 and }{
\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 The Blind Assassin}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 , which won 2000 Man Booker Prize.
\par ANSWER: Margaret }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Atwood}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par [10] This Atwood novel, inspired by Book 22 of the Odyssey, includes a chorus line of maids and a chapter entitled "Helen Ruins My Life." It looks at Homer\rquote s story from a different perspective. 
\par }\pard \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 ANSWER: The }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 Penelopiad}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920  

\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid5701664\charrsid6620920 7. World War I Battles, for 10 points each.
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid16455011\charrsid6620920 [10] This Allied counter attack stopped the German attack in September, 1914.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid16455011\charrsid6620920 First}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid16455011\charrsid6620920  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid16455011\charrsid6620920 Battle of the }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid16455011\charrsid6620920 Marne}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid16455011\charrsid6620920 
\par [10] This Allied offensive of the summer of 1916 was a miserable failure, except for the fact that it diverted troops from Verdun. It saw the first use of tanks in warfare. 
\par ANSWER: Battle of the }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid16455011\charrsid6620920 Somme
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid16455011\charrsid6620920 [10] This 1916 battle between the German High Seas Fleet and Britain\rquote s Grand Fleet was the largest naval battle of the war.
\par ANSWER: Battle of }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid16455011\charrsid6620920 Jutland}{\f0\fs20\insrsid16455011\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5701664\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 8.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Name these isotopes for ten points each.
\par [10]This isotope of hydrogen is one of the constituents of so-called \'93heavy water.\'94
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Deuterium}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  (accept }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Hydrogen-2}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 )
\par [10]This isotope\rquote s half-life of about 5730 years makes it useful for radiocarbon dating.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Carbon-14}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par [10]This isotope of cobalt is frequently used in medicine to kill cancerous tissue.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Cobalt-60}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 9.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Name these doggie breeds, for ten points each.
\par [10] Both Vladimir Putin and Bill Clinton own the Labrador variety of this type of dog.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 retriever}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 s
\par [10] This really ancient breed of dogs has a name meaning \'93lion,\'94 and is derived from the Pekingese.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 shih tzu}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par [10] Also called a Russian wolfhound }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 ,}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Wikipedia tells me these sled dogs are often confused with a Siberian Husky.
\par ANSWER: Alaskan }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Malamut}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 10.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Identify some things about Vandals for ten points each...and it's those vandals that like to hack at art, for ten points each.
\par [10] Morosoni ordered cannonballs to be fired at this Greek building. He then looted it later on.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Parthenon}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par [10] Thomas Bruce was the earl of this region. He also removed many statues from the Parthenon and kept them for his collection.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Elgin
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 [10] Mary Richardson slashed this painting by Diego Velazquez in 1914. It depicts a cherubic appearing god holding a mirror for a goddess to admire herself.
\par ANSWER: The}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Rokeby Venus}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 accept}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{
\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 The}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Toilet of Venus}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 , }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
Venus at her Mirror}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 , }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Venus and Cupid}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 , }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 or}{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 La}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Venus del espejo
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 {\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 11.  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
Eisenhower apocryphally said that nominating this man as chief justice of the US is the \'93biggest...fool mistake I\rquote ve ever made.\'94 For ten points each,
\par [10] Name this man who presided over the court cases Brown v Board of Education and Miranda v Arizona.
\par ANSWER:}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Earl}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Warren}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par [10] This court case in which Earl Warren was chief justice concerns criminal cases in which defendants cannot afford an attorney. Hugo Black gave the majority opinion.
\par ANSWER:}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Gideon}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 v}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Wainwright}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 or }{
\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Wainwright}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  v Gideon}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
[10] LBJ nominated this associate justice for chief justice when Warren planned on resigning; the Senate refused to confirm him, and a scandal involving Louis Wolfson forced him to resign from that associate justice post later on.
\par ANSWER:}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Abraham}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 \'93Abe\'94}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Fortas
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 {\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 12.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 For ten points each, Name these Volcanoes.
\par [10] When this volcano exploded, a sound was produced that was heard at Perth, and island of Rodrigues. Roger Veerbek investigated its aftermath.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Krakatoa}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Krakatau}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  or }{
\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Krakatowa}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par [10] The native }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Aeta}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  fled when this stratovolcano erupted on the island of Luzon.
\par ANSWER: Mt. }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Pinatubo}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par [10] Jebel Ultamat is the Arabic name for this volcano, located on Sicily. A famous description of its eruption was chronicled by Diodorus Siculus, and another occurred in 1669.
\par ANSWER: Mt. A}{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 etna
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 13.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 This type of sword went snicker-snack! For ten points each,
\par [10] Identify this blade that went "through and through," in a certain poem.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 vorpal}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  sword or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 vorpal}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  blade
\par [10] This Lewis Carroll poem features a vorpal sword and is found in }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Through the Looking Glass}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 .
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Jabberwocky}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par [10] Subtitled \'93An Agony in 8 Fits.\'94 the end of this Carrol work sees the Baker call the titular being a boojum.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 ANSWER: The }{
\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Hunting of the Snark
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 {\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 14.  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Identify these Mesoamerican leaders, for ten points each:
\par [10] This ruler of Tenochtitlan added Zapotecs and Yopis to his empire. He was succeeded by Cuitlahuac, who was in turn succeeded by Cuahtemoc.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Montezuma }{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 II}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Moctezuma}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  II}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Motecuhzoma}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  Xocoyotzin}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par [10] This man founded an empire named after him that is split into four provinces, two of which are Collasuyu and Antisuyu. The empire also boasts Macchu Picchu and technology known as }{\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 quipu}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  used for unknown reasons.
\par ANSWER: Sapa}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Inca}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par [10] This son of Huyana Cupac and brother of Huascar was present when Francisco Pizarro came around. Ruminahui was a warrior who supported him, and facilitated Pizarro\rquote s mock trial and death of this ruler.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Atahualpa}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Atabalipa}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
 or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Atawallpa
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 {\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 15.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 The classification Coelentera originally included two phyla. For ten points per an answer,
\par [10,10], Name those two phyla, in either order, one of which includes creatures classified into medusa and polyp life-cycles, the other of which are simply called comb jellies.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Cnidaria}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 ns}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Ctenophore}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Ctenophora}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 

\par [10] Cnidarians and ctenophores have this gel like material that gives support, albeit not very much, to their body.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Mesoglea}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 ectoplasma}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 16.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Identify some political TV shows for ten points each.
\par [10]This CBS Sunday morning staple dates to 1954 and is currently hosted by Bob Schieffer.
\par Answer: }{\b\i\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Face the Nation}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par [10]Named after a crisis-management room in the White House, this show occupies weekday afternoons on CNN and is hosted by Wolf Blitzer.
\par Answer: }{\b\i\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Situation Room}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par [10]The titular group includes the host and namesake, Eleanor Clift, Pat Buchanan,\~ and Monica Crowley.\~ It\rquote s been on PBS since 1982.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Answer: }{
\i\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 The }{\b\i\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 McLaughlin Group}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5701664\charrsid6620920 \page }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 17.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Some Asian poetry, for ten points each.
\par [10] This Turkic poet was immortalized by Tu Fu in \'938 Immortals of the Wine Cup\'94 while Ezra Pound solidified his Western Reputation by translating his \'93The River Merchant\rquote s Wife.\'94
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Li Po}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Li Bai}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  (prompt on partials)
\par [10] Edward Fitzgerald translated this Persian astronomer's poem }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Rubiayat}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 .
\par ANSWER: Omar }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Khayam}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  
\par [10] This author wrote the play }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 The Red Oleanders}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  and W.B. Yeats praised his }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Gitanjali.}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 ANSWER: Rabindranath }{
\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Tagore}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 {\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 18. }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Christopher Memmiger and Leroy Walker comprised the executive government of this country. For ten points each,
\par [10] Name this country headed by Jefferson Davis.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 C}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 onfederate}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 S}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 tates of }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 A}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 merica}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 or The}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Confederacy}{\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 [10] This Senator from Louisiana became the Attorney General of the Confederacy; later on he became the Secretary of State and Secretary of War.
\par ANSWER}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 : }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Judah}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Philip}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Benjamin}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par [10] Alexander Stephens, John Campbell and Robert Hunter, members of the CSA government  met with Abraham Lincoln and William Seward at what conference in an attempt to end the Civil War?
\par ANSWER:}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Hampton Roads}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Conference}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 19.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Identify these sub-fields of social science, for ten points each.

\par [10] This sub-discipline of archaeology, history, and linguistics includes figures Jean Champollion and Howard Carter. This term is used for its geographic implications.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Egyptology}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  (Accept word forms)
\par [10] Terms like are studied Gross Domestic Product and Unemployment in this discipline rather than terms like \'93externality\'94 or \'93marginal utility.\'94 The term was coined by Ragnar Frisch.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 \b\f36\fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0\f0\fs20\ulnone\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 Answer:}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920  Macroeconomics
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5332209 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
[10] This field of study specifically examines reoccuring motifs in ancient and not so ancient culture's legendaria. Joseph Campbell's The Mask of God is one work that specifically endeavours into this field.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 comparative mythology}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15603565\charrsid6620920 20.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 This is the term referring to the ability of a body to hold electric charge. For ten points each,
\par [10] Identify this phenomenon whose strength is measured in farads.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 capacitance}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par [10] Capacitance can be found by taking the charge of the two plates and dividing by this quantity, the potential difference between two plates.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 voltage}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 
\par [10] Integrating electric charge over capacitance with respect to charge yields this quanitity. In kinematics, it is force multiplied by distance.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1908363 {\f0\fs20\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5332209\charrsid6620920 work}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3950118\charrsid6620920 
\par }}