{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff36\stshfdbch0\stshfloch36\stshfhich36\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f36\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}{\f246\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f247\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f249\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f250\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f251\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f252\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f253\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f254\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f606\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri CE;}{\f607\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Cyr;}{\f609\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Greek;}{\f610\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Tur;}
{\f613\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 \styrsid13982668 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid13982668 Normal (Web);}{
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 \slink17 \ssemihidden \styrsid13982668 Body Text;}{\*\cs17 \additive \f0\fs24 
\sbasedon10 \slink16 \slocked \ssemihidden \styrsid13982668 Body Text Char;}{\*\cs18 \additive \sbasedon10 \styrsid5314136 unicode;}}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0{\lsdlockedexcept Normal;heading 1;heading 2;heading 3;heading 4;heading 5;heading 6;heading 7;heading 8;heading 9;toc 1;toc 2;toc 3;toc 4;toc 5;toc 6;toc 7;toc 8;toc 9;caption;Title;Default Paragraph Font;Subtitle;Strong;Emphasis;Table Grid;}}
{\*\rsidtbl \rsid420889\rsid2045984\rsid5311150\rsid5314136\rsid5901967\rsid6512032\rsid6633527\rsid7692809\rsid9662706\rsid10120105\rsid12206094\rsid12917605\rsid13308068\rsid13982668\rsid15078889}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.5604;}{\info
{\author JACOB}{\operator Ike}{\creatim\yr2009\mo1\dy23\hr16\min43}{\revtim\yr2009\mo2\dy1\hr23\min56}{\version5}{\edmins5}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords3610}{\nofchars20578}{\*\company Hewlett-Packard}{\nofcharsws24140}{\vern24689}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1440\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\viewnobound1\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel
\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot13982668\newtblstyruls\nogrowautofit \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid9662706\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 1.  }{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
Frederick Ward was the first commander of a key fighting force against this. Shortly before it, its central figure became part of the God\rquote s Worshippers Society, whose membership would contribute to his pursuits. Up
set by its actions, the gentry rallied behind Zeng Guofan, who succeeded in taking the city of Tianjing, the name of Nanjing during this. Earlier, it was weakened by the defection of Shi Dakai and numerous followers, which caused its advancement on Shangh
ai to be thwarted by the}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967  \'93Ever-Victorious Army,\'94 led British officer Charles Gordon. For ten points, name this violent uprising instigated by Hong Xiuquan, while believing himself to be Jesus
\rquote  brother, in the nineteenth century against Manchu China\line ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Taiping}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967  Rebellion
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 2.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 In a hypothesis, the progenote is the predecessor of all components of this level formulated in 1990. Its central definition 
is based on the differences by genome, therefore 2 of constituents of this level are filled with microscopic, primitive, prokaryotic organisms, and the third includes}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
 amoeba, slime molds, paramecia and all other macroscopic forms of life. Eukarya is the most populous member of for ten points, what level below empire, but above kingdom that also includes Eubacteria and Archaea.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Domain
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 3.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 One group in this country is Joint Task Force OMEGA, that was part of Operation JM. Another is the Black Eagles,
 government combatted by using Search Bloc. This country was the home of a member of the Oxygen Green, Marc Gonslaves, Kieth Stanwell and Thomas Howes, until Operation}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
 Jacque, was launched to rescue a person with French citizenship, Ingrid Betancourt, who 
supported Alvaro Uribe's third term after years of captivity with FARC. For ten points, identify this nation, whose other current problems include the Medellin drug cartel.
\par ANSWER: Republic of}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Colombia
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\insrsid9662706\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 4.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 In one of his operas, Billy is selected to be the
 husband of the Queen of Pluto, and in another music scars of the titular aliens, and a third opera sees the protagonist marry a telephone addict by proposing over the telephone. However this composer of }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
The Unicorn, The Gorgon, and The Manticore}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967  and }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Help, Help, the Globolinks!}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
 is best known for showing a mother trying to steal gold from 3 of the title figures on their way to visit the birth of Jesus. For ten points, name this composer of the first opera for television, }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
Amahl and the Night Visitors}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 .
\par ANSWER: Gian}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Carlo}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Menotti
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 5.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
One famous scene in this work depicts the changing patterns of light through a room as a man, who recently died of a stroke, sits in a chair and his wat
ch ticks.  This novel comes out in favor of the idea that families should merge with the mass of humanity instead of confining themselves by social class through the words of a daguerrotypist.  That daguerrotypist reveals that the}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967  curse laid by his ancestor may have been possible through knowledge of a tendency toward apoplexy in the owners of the title estate.  The judge stole the title estate from Matthew, but at the end,
 the last Pyncheon marries the last Maule.  For ten points, name this novel whose title object sits in Salem, written by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
\par Answer: }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 The }{\b\i\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 House of the Seven Gables}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 6.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 One combatant\rquote 
s journey had started at a town where in October 1835 a hundred or so townspeople had resisted the efforts of a unit of Mexican dragoons to take their cannon, which had originally been permitted by the}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
 Mexican government as a defense against marauding Indian tribes. Its commander had pursued a policy of gradual eastward retreat, resulting in one point in an angry letter from his commander-in-chi
ef accusing him of cowardice and admonishing him to stand and fight. For ten points, name this decisive 1836 battle of the Texan Revolution in which the battle cries of \'93Remember Goliad!\'94 and \'93Remember the Alamo!\'94
 spurred 800 Texans to victory over Santa Anna\rquote s Mexican army.
\par ANSWER: Battle of }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 San Jacinto
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid2045984\charrsid5901967 \page }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 7.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
The Single Vehicle is disucussed in one of these texts named for Srimsala.
 The three used for Pure Land speaks on 48 vows and the land of bliss, while another was used by Japanese Emperors because of its discourse on the "Universal Sovereign." Those two are referred to as "Infinite Life" and "Golden Light." The importance of }{
\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 bodhisattvas and dharams are discussed in The Diamond and Lotus variety. For ten points, name this type of concise text, like the }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Kama}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967  which speaks of love.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Sutra
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\f0\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 8.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 It does not hold where \'93g prime x\'94
 changes sign repeatedly as it approaches infinit
y, and can sometimes cause problems in cases like the one where f of x equals the quantity x plus cosine of x times sine x, and g of x equals e to the sine x power times the quantity x plus cosine x times sine x.  In other circumstances, it causes repeate
d oscillations, which make it impossible to find the limit.  For ten points, name this rule, discovered by}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
 Bernoulli and named for the author of the textbook in which it first appears, which states that the limit of f of x divided by g of x as both approach infinity equals the limit of f prime x divided by g prime x.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 L\rquote Hopital}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 \rquote s rule (accept }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 L\rquote Hospital}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 \rquote 
s rule or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Bernoulli}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 \rquote s rule before his name is mentioned)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\f0\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 9.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
One god of these peoples has a beak and hair made of snakes and is paired with a goddess
 that had scissor arms. In addition to Tulchulcha, the death gods of them include Leinth and Vanth, while their blacksmith god was Sethlans. Their god of life was a son of Semla and called Fuflun, while their war god was}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967  Laran. Menrva, Uni, and Tini were a triumvirate for the gods of these people. For ten points, name these neighbors of the Romans that lived in Etruria.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Etruscans}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\f0\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 10.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 This play was based off of Robert Greene's }{
\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Pandosto}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 . One character in this play purchases she
et music and then sings with Mopsa. Father Time announces the passage of 16 years, after a shepherd and a clown raise Perdita, whom the King of Sicily believes is related to the royal Bohemians}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
 Polixenes and Florizel. His son Mamillus dies leaving Hermione separated from Leontes. For ten points, name this Shakespeare play where a bear kills Antigonus.
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Winter's Tale
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 11.  }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Autreforis convict }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 and }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 autreforis acquit}{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967  are two types of the peremptory version of this.  In }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 North Carolina V Alford}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
, the defendant used it to avoid execution. That variety, now named for him, is differentiated from }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 nolo contendere}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
, an action also of this type. This term also is part of a namesake}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967  colloquy, during which the judge listens to an allocution by the defendan
t. A reduction in the class of a felony, or prison term, is at the center of its namesake bargaining.. For ten points name this action, which at arriagnment involves answering a judge's question with "guilty" or "not guilty."
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 pleading (}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 accept word forms, do not accept pleaing guilty, or pleaing innocent)
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 12.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Units here included Fraser\rquote s Highlanders, the Royal Welch Fusiliers, and Banastre Tarlton\rquote 
s British Legion.  The British commander had to withdraw his troops inside his outer works, except for three redoubts that took the allies about a week to overcome.  At that point, they moved their}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
 siege guns to inside positions and pounded away.  After Robert Abercrombie\rquote s attempt to spike the French cannon failed, the British had no choice but to surrend
er.  For ten points, name this October 1781 battle in which George Washington defeated Lord Cornwallis, the decisive American victory of the Revolution.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Yorktown}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\f0\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 13.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
This work contends the heart finds its morning in the dew of little things, and that to overthrow a tyrant, the throne erected within us must be destroyed. This work also contends that \'93It is life in quest of life that bodies fear the grave\'94
 in its final portion, \'93The Farewell.\'94 It begins with \'93The}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967  Coming of the Ship\'94 in which after s
pending 12 years in the city of Orphalese, the title character offers advice on beauty, marriage, eating and drinking. For ten points, name this work about Almustafa, written by Kahlil Gibran.
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Prophet
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid2045984\charrsid5901967 \page }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 14.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
This city contains the largest civilian cemetery in the world and its Chilehaus is a World Heritage Site designed by Fritz Hoger. Wandsbek and Altona are two of this city's is seven boroughs, and it is home to the aforementioned Ohlsdorf Cemetary and two 
artificial lakes, the Inner and Outer}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
 Alster. This city is the namesake of one of the Wadden Sea National Parks, and the island of Neuwerk belongs to this city. It is located at the confluence of the Billie and the Elbe. For ten points, identify this city t
hat is Europe's second largest port and the namesake of edible round patties of meat.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Dresden
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\f0\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 15.  }{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Debye radii are used to dampen out these objects that Gaussian surfaces allow for the calculation of via surface integrals. The energy associated wi
th one is found by taking the permittivity of a medium, multiplying it with its namesake vector squared and dividing by}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
 2. Faraday cages nullify them completely, and this subject of the Stark Effect has a potential that is called voltage. For ten points, n
ame these regions of space by which charges interact, introduced by Faraday, that is similar to its magnetic counterpart.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 electric field}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 16.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 First formed in 1968 in Birmingham, England as blues-rock band Earth, it became famous throughout the kno
wn universe for its pioneering use of detuned lead guitar, invented because an accident in a sheet metal factory had cut off two of its guitarist\rquote s fingertips. That man,}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
 Tony Iommi, would, with drummer Bill Ward, bassist Geezer Butler, would go through several vocalists including Deep Purple\rquote s Ian Gillan and Ronnie James Dio. For ten points, name this band known for the songs \'93Paranoid\'94 and \'93Iron Man\'94
 and fronted by Ozzy Osbourne. 
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Black Sabbath}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967  (Prompt on just \'93Sabbath\'94)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\f0\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 17.  }{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 The embrace of one titles a short story by Nadine Gordimer, and Donald Mahon and Joe Gilligan are the subject of William Faulkner\rquote s first novel, titled after a person with this occupation. The phrase \'93
under an English Heaven\'94 appears in a work whose title has this word in it. In addition to Rupert Brooke\rquote s, a picaresque work by Jaroslav Hasek describes a Good one of these named Svejk, and}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
 Ford Maddox Ford wrote a novel told in flashbacks about two couples, The Good one of these. For ten points, name this profession of Henry Fleming in }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 The Red Badge of Courage}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 , Paul Baumer in }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 All Quiet on the Western Front}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967  and every member of C-Company in }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
The Thin Red Line.}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Soldier}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 s
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 18.  }{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 This man was made Govenor of Akhershus and his country\rquote s ca}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid12917605\charrsid5901967 pital after he served in his mos}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
t famous post. He kicked Leon Trotsky out his country and he resigned his most notable post after he was accused by McCarthy. That post saw him seek the recognition of Taiwan and facilitate the creation of the countries Isra
el and Indonesia. He was succeeded by a man who died on a plane}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
 crash after being nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, Dag Hammarskoldj. For ten points, name this Norwegian first secretary general of the United Nations.
\par ANSWER: Trygve }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Lie}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\b\f0\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 19.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
The LCAO method is a law of superposition for these objects that drive the Diels-Alder reaction whose highest occupied and lowest unoccupied levels lead to the band gap. Bond order is conserved in the non-bonding type, while the stability of the molecule 
is reduced in an antibonding variety. The hybridized ones can be represented with terms}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
 like sp3 (ess, p, three), while the ones simply designated p have azimuthal quantum numbers of one. For ten points, name these probability distributions of electrons\rquote  locations that come in molecular and atomic varieties.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 orbital}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 s (take }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid12917605\charrsid5901967 atomic}{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967  orbitals}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid12917605\charrsid5901967  before non-bonding}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 )
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\f0\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 20.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
One person who tried to do this was approached Edmund Neville, and that man was William Parry. John Resley tried to do it, while a certain Francis tried to do this action when it coincided with Henry I\rquote s invasion. In addition to the Roberto Ridolfi
\rquote s collaborators, the Bond of Association was passed after }{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Throckmorton failed to do it, and Gilbert Gifford, John Ballard and Anthony Babbington\rquote 
s conspiracy to do this action led to a certain Scott\rquote s death. Francis Walsingham tortured, for ten points, perpetrators of what action that saw the attempted killing of a certain female monarch?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 trying to kill Elizabeth I}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967  (accept equivalents, make sure they have the first Elizabeth, not the second.)
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 TB.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Including figures like Max Ernst and Giorgio de Chirico, it developed as a response to the damage its exponents thought rationality
 had done to the world via the First World War.  Attempting to unite the conscious and unconscious realm, genius was believed to be accessible via the unconscious according to}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
 Andre Breton in its Manifesto.  For ten points, name this artistic movement, centered on France in the 1920\rquote s, including artists like Salvador Dali and Marcel Duchamp.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Surrealists
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 {\f0\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 {\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 1.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 The new season of 24 has started, and it\rquote 
s pretty awesome. For ten points each,
\par [10] This protagonist of the show is back, even though he is investigated by the Senate regarding his role in CTU.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Jack}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Bauer}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  (accept either)
\par [10] Before returning to the U.S., Jack Bauer was in this nation which saw General Juma and Dubaku slaughter a bunch of innocent people similar to the Rwandan Genocide.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Sengala}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par [10] This woman quoted De Tocqueville in her inauguration speech asking people to \'93let me give you the government you deserve,\'94 after taking office.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Allision}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Taylor}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  (accept either)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 {\f0\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 2.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Heaven and Hell figure prominently into musical works. For ten points each,}{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 [10] This man composed a Dante Symphony that was originally supposed to contain three movements. The first two represent Inferno and Purgatory, but Wagner convinced him not to do a Paradise movement.}{
\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 ANSWER: Franz}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Liszt
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 [10] Glenn Branca\rquote s symphony of this number is known as \'93Devil Choirs at the Gates of Heaven\'94; Philip Glass\rquote s is known as the Plutonian Ode.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 6}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  (accept equivalents)
\par [10] This man figured Faust, a man who sells his soul to the devil, into his Gretchen at the Spinning Wheel, but may be better known for a symphony lacking a movement.
\par ANSWER: Franz}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Schubert}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\f0\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 {\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 3.  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 The 1960\rquote s were turbulent times for the continent of Africa. FTPE:

\par [10] In 1967, Igbo peoples formed this country from Nigeria. It then engaged in a three year with Nigeria, and its leader issued the Ahaiara declaration against alleged genocide. Its bight was eventually renamed the Bight of Bonny.
\par ANSWER: Republic of}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Biafra
\par }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 [10] His introduction of the Preventive Detention Act, the Trade Union Act
, amendment of the constitution to make the CPP the only legal party, and construction of the Akosombo dam led to the overthrow of this first Ghana leader.
\par ANSWER: Kwame }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Nkrumah}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par [10] In this war, Israel launched Operation Focus against the Egyptian Airforce, it ended with Israel seizing The West Bank, the Gaza Strip, and the Golan Heights.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5314136 {\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Six-day}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 \rquote s 
}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 War}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 (prompt on }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 June}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 War, The}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Setback}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 , }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 an-}{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Naksah}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  or anything mentioning }{
\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Arab-Israeli}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  and }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 War}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 )}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 {\f0\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 {\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 4.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
Name a god, a hero and a monster from Mesopotamian mythology, for ten points each.
\par [10] This god of the wind was the product of An, god of the heavens, and Ki, god of the moons.  His children include the moon god Nanna, Nergal, and Nisaba, the grain goddess.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Enlil}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Ellil}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par [10] This slayer of the bull of heaven had earlier assisted Gilgamesh in killing Humbaba.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Enkidu
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 [10] This bird breathes fire and water, stole the Tablets of destiny and Lugalbanda killed it.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 zu}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 anzu}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\f0\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid2045984\charrsid5901967 \page }{
\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 5.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Answer these questions about the heart for ten points each.
\par [10] This vein brings blood into the heart from the head, chest and arms.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Superior vena cava}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par [10] This is the only vein that holds oxygenated blood.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 pulmonary vein}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par [10] This chamber pumps oxygen-poor blood into the pulmonary artery toward the lungs.
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 {\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Right ventricle}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 \~
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\insrsid2045984\charrsid5901967 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 6.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Women American poets, for ten points each.
\par [10] This remarkable woman was the first African American to publish a book. She liked addressing famous people, including \'93To the King\rquote s Most Excellent Majesty,\'94 and \'93To His Excellency George Washington.\'94 
\par ANSWER: Phillis }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Wheatley}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par [10] This author wrote a sonnet about Euclid and wrote }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Renascence}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  and }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 A Few Figs From Thistles}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 . 
\par ANSWER: Edna St. Vincent }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Millay
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 [10] This woman wrote }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 I Felt a Funeral in My Brain}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 , but also the better known but still morbid poems }{
\i\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Because I Could not Stop for Death}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  and }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 I Heard a Fly Buzz When I Died}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 .  
\par ANSWER: Emily }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Dickinson}{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5314136\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5314136 {\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 7.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5314136\charrsid5901967 Identify these political entities around 700 
square kilometers in area, for ten points each.
\par [10] This city-state has a festival at its Esplanade, the Theatres on the Bay. Its tallest building is the Raffles Palace.
\par ANSWER: Republic of }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5314136\charrsid5901967 Singapore}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5314136\charrsid5901967  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5314136\charrsid5901967 Singapore}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5314136\charrsid5901967  City
\par [10] This 694 square kilometer island has a World Trade Center at Manama and will form a large bridge with Qatar.
\par ANSWER: Kingdom of }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5314136\charrsid5901967 Bahrain}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5314136\charrsid5901967  or (}{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid5314136\charrsid5901967 Mamlakat al-}{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5314136\charrsid5901967 Ba}{
\cs18\f0\fs20\insrsid5314136\charrsid5901967 \u7717\'3f}{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5314136\charrsid5901967 rayn}{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid5314136\charrsid5901967 )
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5314136\charrsid5901967 [10] This collection of Federated States includes phosphate-rich Nauru, Palau, the US Wake Island, and Guam.
\par ANSWER: Federated States of }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5314136\charrsid5901967 Micronesia}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5314136\charrsid5901967  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5314136\charrsid5901967 FSM
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 8.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 New Deal things, for ten points each.
\par [10]Symbolized by the Blue Eagle, it tried to stabilize the economy until declared unconstitutional in }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Schechter v. U.S.}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 N}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 ational }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 R}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 ecovery }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 A}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 dministration
\par [10]Established by the Wagner Act in 1935, it continues to regulate unions, management, and the collective bargaining environment to this day.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 N}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 ational }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 L}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 abor }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 R}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 elations }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 B}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 oard
\par [10]This act established a really cool sounding law, Regulation Q, and established the FDIC.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Glass-Steagall}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  Act
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 {\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 9.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
Identify the following about religious constructions, for ten points each.
\par [10] These constructs may contain }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 chedi}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 , a temple devoted to relics for Buddha. Today, ones can be found in Phnom Phen and Bangkok.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Wat}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par [10] Isidore of Miletus and Anthemius designed this building, which Mehmet the 2nd converted into a mosque. The Byzantine Empress Zoe is depicted on some mosaics in this mosque.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Hagia Sofia}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par [10] Scipione Borghese commissioned a basilica named after this man in Rome over which catacombs also exist.
\par ANSWER: Saint}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Sebastian}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\f0\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 10.  }{
\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Answer the following about a certain material, for ten points each.
\par [10] This phase of matter is analyzed by Langmuir probes and is found in stars as an ionized gas.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 plasma}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par [10] This man's length is the length of which electric field screening in plasmas occur. With Huckel, he names an important method of deriving activity coefficients.
\par Answer: Peter }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 Debye}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par [10] One form of plasma that exists on earth is the ball variety of this phenomenon.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 lightning}{\f0\fs20\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967  
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 11. }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
French Nobel Prize Winners, for ten points each.
\par [10] This first winner of the prize wrote}{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  Flotsam}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  and }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 The Revolt of the Flowers}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 .
\par ANSWER: Sully }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Prudhomme}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par [10] This Irish born author who wrote in English and French penned }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Endgame}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 .
\par ANSWER: Samuel }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Beckett}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par [10] This winner wrote a play set in hell about Inez and Garcin, }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 No Exit}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 .
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx2835\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 ANSWER: Jean Paul }{
\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Sartre
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 {\f0\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx3720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 12.  }{
\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Identify these igneous rocks, for ten points each.
\par [10] This extremely porous, lightweight rock is considered a glass because it has no fine crystals in it. Islands or \'93rafts\'94 of this material can be made if a volcanic eruption occurs.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Pumice}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par [10] This is the collective term for rock-like matter ejected from a volcanic eruption. It can be classified as ash, lapilli, volcanic bombs and volcanic blocks depending on size.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Tephra}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par [10] This greeinish, intrusive rock has crystals and, like basalt or granite comprises some of the earth crust.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Gabbro}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 13.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
This Confederate fortress on the Mississippi River managed to hold out for a month and a half under Union assault before surrendering on July 4, 1863.\~ For ten points each:
\par [10]Name this Mississippi city, whose capture severed the Confederate supply lines.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Vicksburg}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par [10]This Union commander of the Army of the Tennessee greatly burnished his reputation with the victory.
\par Answer: Ulysses Simpson }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Grant}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par [10]The Confederate commander at Vicksburg fought off Grant in the winter of 1862 but was unable to hold the city.\~ He shares his first and last names with the inventor of Coca-Cola, a fellow Civil War veteran.
\par Answer: John Clifford }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Pemberton}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 \~
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 {\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 14.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Name these French philosophers, for ten points each.
\par [10] His works include }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 The Causes of an Echo, The Renal Glands, }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 and }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 The Eternal Damnation of Pagans}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 . He also described 3 parts of government in his }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 The Spirit of the Laws}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 .
\par ANSWER: Charles-Louis de }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Secondat}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 , baron de La Br\'e8de et de }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Montesquieu}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
 (either underlined portion)
\par [10] This man published }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Rameau\rquote s Nephew}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 .  He also wrote the plays }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 The Father of the Family}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  and }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 The Natural Son}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 .
\par ANSWER: Denis}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Diderot
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 [10] This philosopher that died in 2007 was concerned with concealed truths called simulacra. He used an example of a map forged by an empire to illustrate his principle of hyperreality.
\par ANSWER: Jean}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Baudrillard
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\f0\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 {\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 15.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
A war in this region began in August 2008, growing out of a namesake ethnic group's citizenship with Russia, among other things. For ten points each,
\par [10] Name that region, a breakaway republic found in a certain country like Abhkahzia, with capital Tskhinvali.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 South Ossetia}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par [10] South Ossetia is part of this country where Lado Gurgenidze and Mikhail Saakashvilli lead.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Georgia}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par [10] Earlier than the South Ossetia conflict, Mikhail Saakashvilli was installed as leader of Georgia after replacing Eduard Sheveradnze by coming to power via this revolution.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Rose}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Revolution
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 {\f0\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 {\f0\fs20\insrsid2045984\charrsid5901967 \page }{\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 16.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
They all have fourteen lines and most of them contrast two related but differing things.  For ten points each:
\par [10] Name this poetic from.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Sonnet}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par [10]This type of sonnet, divided into an octave and sestet, features a }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 volta}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  where the subject turns.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Petrarchian}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  (accept }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Italian}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 )
\par [10] This man wrote curtal sonnets for his poems. He wrote about Heraclitean Fires and Felix Randall in addition to }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 The Windhover}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 .
\par ANSWER: Gerard Manley }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Hopkins}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs22\insrsid2045984\charrsid5901967 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 17.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 An extreme variety, creeping motion, occurs when the Reynolds Number is below 1. For ten points each,
\par [10] Name this type of motion distinguished from the turbulent type that occurs when the Reynolds number is below 2000.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Laminar}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  flow
\par [10] The Reynolds number is a dimensionless quantity that gives the ratio of the forces of inertia to the forces of what other value, whose dynamic type is measured with a rheometer? It is symbolized eta.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Viscosity}{\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par [10] When helium reaches the lambda point, it becomes one of these materials that do not experience dynamic viscosity.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Superfluid
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 {\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 18.  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 On October 10}{\f0\fs20\super\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 th}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  732, this man led a combined Frankish and Burgundian army against an Umayyad Caliphate. For ten points each,
\par [10] Name that man, who fought at Poitiers..
\par ANSWER: Charles}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Martel}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 or Carollus}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Martellus}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par [10] Charles Martel lent his name to this dynasty whose rulers included Charles the Fat, Charles the Bald, Charles the Child and Charlemagne.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Carolingian}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Dynasty}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 [10] This son of Charles Martel deposed Childeric the III, and with the support of Pope Zachary became a ruler of Neustria and Austrasia.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Pippin the Short}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Pippin III}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Pippin the Younger}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 or}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 those}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 answers}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 with}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 Peppin}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid420889 {\f0\fs20\insrsid420889\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6633527 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 
19. It takes place in Oceania, which has always been at war with Eastasia.  For ten points each:
\par [10]Name this novel by George Orwell.
\par Answer: }{\b\i\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 1984}{\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 
\par [10]This employee of the Ministry of Truth is the protagonist of }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 1984}{\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 .
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 Winston}{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 Smith}{\f0\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 
(accept either name)}{\f0\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 [10]This shadowy figure leads the Brotherhood which Winston attempts to join, and wrote \'93the book.\'94
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 Emmanuel}{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 Goldstein}{\f0\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 
(accept either name)}{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\insrsid13982668\charrsid5901967 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6633527 {\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 20.  Identify the following about the work of the students of Franz Boaz for ten points each.
\par [10] This seminal text was published by Margaret Mead; it discussed sexuality in the title location. Derek Freeman criticized it later on.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 Coming of Age in Samoa
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 [10] This woman known for her literary works published studies of Zombies. Another foray into anthropology for her was }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 Mules and Men}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 .
\par Answer: Zora Neale}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 Hurston}{\f0\fs20\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 
\par [10] This linguist formed a hypothesis with his student Benjamin Whorf that the structure of the language a person speaks influences his world view.
\par Answer: Edward }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 Sapir
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13982668 {\f0\insrsid6633527\charrsid5901967 
\par }}