{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch36\stshfhich36\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f35\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f36\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}{\f137\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040503050406030204}Cambria;}
{\f246\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f247\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f249\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f250\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f251\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f252\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f253\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f254\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f596\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f597\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}{\f599\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f600\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f601\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}
{\f602\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}{\f603\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}{\f604\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Tahoma (Vietnamese);}{\f605\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Tahoma (Thai);}{\f606\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri CE;}
{\f607\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Cyr;}{\f609\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Greek;}{\f610\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Tur;}{\f613\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Baltic;}{\f1616\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Cambria CE;}
{\f1617\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Cambria Cyr;}{\f1619\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Cambria Greek;}{\f1620\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Cambria Tur;}{\f1623\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Cambria Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \slink15 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\*\cs15 \additive \b\fs32\kerning32\loch\f137\hich\af137\dbch\af0 
\sbasedon10 \slink1 \slocked Heading 1 Char;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 \slink17 \ssemihidden \styrsid812080 header;}{\*\cs17 
\additive \f0\fs24 \sbasedon10 \slink16 \slocked \ssemihidden \styrsid812080 Header Char;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext18 \slink19 \styrsid812080 footer;}{\*\cs19 \additive \f0\fs24 \sbasedon10 \slink18 \slocked \styrsid812080 Footer Char;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f35\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext20 \slink21 \ssemihidden \styrsid812080 Balloon Text;}{\*\cs21 \additive \f35\fs16 \sbasedon10 \slink20 \slocked \ssemihidden \styrsid812080 Balloon Text Char;}}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0{\lsdlockedexcept Normal;heading 1;heading 2;heading 3;heading 4;heading 5;heading 6;heading 7;heading 8;heading 9;toc 1;toc 2;toc 3;toc 4;toc 5;toc 6;toc 7;toc 8;toc 9;caption;Title;Default Paragraph Font;Subtitle;Strong;Emphasis;Table Grid;}}
{\*\rsidtbl \rsid812080\rsid2764559\rsid3632405}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.5604;}{\info{\author helpdesk}{\operator Ike}{\creatim\yr2009\mo1\dy23\hr14\min34}{\revtim\yr2009\mo2\dy1\hr23\min45}{\version4}{\edmins6}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords3403}
{\nofchars19402}{\*\company Hewlett-Packard}{\nofcharsws22760}{\vern24689}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0
\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot812080 \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid812080 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid812080 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\ftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid812080 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid812080 \chftnsepc 
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid812080 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid812080 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid812080 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid812080 \chftnsepc 
\par }}\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\header \pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid812080 From Here to EternityRound 8}{
\fs20\insrsid812080\charrsid812080 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \s18\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid812080\charrsid812080 Page }{\field{\*\fldinst {\b\fs20\insrsid812080\charrsid812080 
 PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\b\fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid2764559 7}}}{\fs20\insrsid812080\charrsid812080  of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\b\fs20\insrsid812080\charrsid812080  NUMPAGES  }}{\fldrslt {\b\fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid2764559 7}}}{
\fs20\insrsid812080\charrsid812080 
\par }\pard \s18\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid812080\charrsid812080 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\b\fs20\insrsid812080 1.  It doesn\rquote t work well for mycobacteria , ricketessia, or spirochetes.\~
 Urine specimens are often distorted by antimicrobial therapy; certain organisms are especially susceptible to changes in results on this procedure. Metheylene blue and fuchsin are sometimes used as alternatives to the main ingredients.\~
When rinsing off the slide, it is important to wash off the crystal}{\fs20\insrsid812080  violet and not the culture.\~ For ten points, name this microbiologic test, which works because the cell walls of certain bacteria are dehydrated by
 ethanol and acetone, leading them to be classified as positive and negative.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Gram stain}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 2.  In one depiction, flames surround this god as he stands over Apasmara, and he holds a drum shaped like an hourglass and }{\b\i\fs20\insrsid812080 Agni.}{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 
 One symbol of his worship is Lingam, and he smeared ashes onto his body}{\fs20\insrsid812080 , called Bhasma}{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 .}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
 His hair is the source of the River Ganges, and he swallowed the world's sins causing his throat to be blue.  }{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 Vamadeva}{\fs20\insrsid812080  and }{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 Tatpurusa}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
 are two of the five mantras that represent this god, whose consort is Parvati. Usually part of a trio that includes Brahma and Vishnu, for ten points name this Hindu destroyer.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Shiva
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 3.  He tried to walk back some of his greatest insights in the second edition of his most famous works; Schopenhauer advised his readers that they would be wasting their time unless they used both editions together.\~
 He illustrated one of his concepts by picturing a man wondering whether to reveal the location of a potentia}{\fs20\insrsid812080 l murder victim, and that idea is based off of deontological elements, not consequentialist, which he called \'93
categorical imperative.\'94\~ For ten points, name this German philosopher, author of }{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 Prolegomena to any Future Metaphysics}{\fs20\insrsid812080  and }{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 Critique of Pure Reason.}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par Answer: Immanuel }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Kant}{\fs20\insrsid812080 \~
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 4.  Making the careers of Atlee Pomerene and Owen Roberts, the case turned on the testimony of M.T. Everhart as to the delivery of bonds.\~
 Follow-on investigations revealed corruption in the Veterans Administration and led to the resignation of Harry Dougherty. Concerned with land in }{\fs20\insrsid812080 Elk Hills, Buena Vista, and Salt Creek, Harry Sinclair and Edw}{\fs20\insrsid3632405 
ard D}{\fs20\insrsid812080 oheny spent about $409,000 in cash and $1100 in livestock to facilitate the transaction.\~ For ten points, give the name of this scandal, in which Secretary of the
 Interior Albert Fall took bribes to lease U.S. oil reserves in Wyoming.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Teapot Dome}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 5.  In one work by this person, Consul Bernick allows a rotting, barely-floating ship to sail, but discovers later that his son was a stowaway on that boat. In an
other work by this writer, Doctor Stockmann tries to put out a warning about contaminated water, but his words fall on deaf ears. In addition to }{\b\i\fs20\insrsid812080 The Pillars of Society}{\b\fs20\insrsid812080  and }{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 
An Enemy of the People, }{\fs20\insrsid812080 he described a syphilitic young man named Oswald who unknowi
ngly tries to court his half sister. Another play concerns rival historians George Tessman and Eilert Lovberg and their wives, one of whom kills herself at the end with her father\rquote s pistol. For ten points, name this playwright of }{
\i\fs20\insrsid812080 Ghosts}{\fs20\insrsid812080  and }{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 Hedda Gabler}{\fs20\insrsid812080 , a Norwegian.  
\par ANSWER: Henrik }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Ibsen}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid812080 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 6.  Thixotropic materials are time dependent upon this quantity that is the subject of the Reynolds Number and the Navier-tokes Equation has a zero value for it when it is the Euler Equation. Dividing shear }{\fs20\insrsid812080 
stress and shear strain and mass density yields this quantitiy. For ten points, name this physical quantity, measured in poises, that determines the laminarity or turbulence of flow, the resistance of a fluid to flow at low speeds.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Viscosity
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 7.  His characters include a man whose use of dynamite to fish goes unpunished until he runs afoul of a \'93fool dog\'94 called Stormy Weather.\~ In addition to \'93The Passing of Cockeye Blacklock,\'94
 his creations include the bestial artist Vandover in }{\b\i\fs20\insrsid812080 Vandover and the Brute.}{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 \~ Other works include characters like Minna Hooven and Trina}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
 Sieppe, For ten points, name this American naturalist, whose Epic of the Wheat included }{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 The Pit}{\fs20\insrsid812080  and }{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 The Octopus}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
, and who also wrote the tale of a San Francisco dentist, }{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 McTeague}{\fs20\insrsid812080 .
\par Answer: Benjamin Franklin }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Norris}{\fs20\insrsid812080 , Jr.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par 
\par \page 8.  Their name, meaning \'93place of herons\'94 or \'93place of whiteness,\'94 was adopted by one of their constituent tribes upon their 1325 arrival to their most famous location.\~ In 1428, their king }{\fs20\insrsid812080 
Itzcoatl decided that people should not know about history and ordered all records destroyed, stymie-ing Fray Diego Duran\rquote s later efforts to determine their origins.\~
 One story has them originating from seven caves, which were excavated in 2000 in the state of Puebla, Mexico.\~ For ten points, name this Mesoamerican civilization with capital at Tenochtitlan, whose king Montezuma was conquered by Hernan Cortes.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Aztecs}{\fs20\insrsid812080 \~
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 9.  Known in the natives\rquote  language as Chebucto, it was founded below a drumlin on what was to become known as Citadel Hill.\~
 Between the World Wars, the United States would have opened war with Britain by invading this city after a poison gas attack.\~ Even that might have been less of a catastrophe than the collisions of the}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
 Ino and Mont Blanc, which took place in this city\rquote s harbor in 1917.\~ For ten points, name this Canadian city, home of Dalhousie University and capital of Nova Scotia.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Halifax}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 10.  In this novel, London was unable to match the success of Mombasa at the Bokanovsky Process.  Citizens can see movies like Three Weeks in a Helicopter and play Centrifugal Bumble-Puppy.  The conversation between }{
\fs20\insrsid812080 Mustapha Mond and the protagonist is a vehicle for the author to share philosophy about society.  Taking its title from }{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 The Tempest}{\fs20\insrsid812080 , For ten points, name
 this novel in which Bernard Marx pines for Lenina Crowne, the drug }{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 soma}{\fs20\insrsid812080  delivers \'93Christianity without tears,\'94 and John Savage struggles with modern society, a dystopia by Aldous Huxley.
\par Answer: }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Brave New World
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 
11.  The third mission of this name sought to measure the strength of Van Allen Belts, while this series of spacecraft names an anomaly showing an unpredicted change of trajectory. Another mission of this name explored Saturn and the rings before changing
 heading out to of the Solar System}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
, like its previous incarnation did, as it headed toward Aldeberan by passing through an asteroid belt. The 6th-9th of this operation features a weather network. For ten points, name this NASA program best known for its 10th and 11th probes.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Pioneer}{\fs20\insrsid812080  program
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 12.  His second string quartet features a vivace movement played in sonata form in the fourth movement, while the third movement is known as his Nocturne. One of his works is a tone poem dedicated to Liszt, whil
e another of his works contains the lines " Fly away on the wings of the wind to our homeland," and appears before the " Konchakovna's Cavatina" of his opera Prince Igor. The composer of the}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
 Polovstian Dances, For ten points, name this composer of }{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 In The Steppes of Central Asia}{\fs20\insrsid812080 , who is a member of The Five.
\par ANSWER: Alexander}{\b\fs20\insrsid812080  }{\fs20\insrsid812080 Porfiryevich}{\b\fs20\insrsid812080  }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Borodin}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080 13.  One ruler with this name gave his daughter in marriage to Aspar after his expedition against the Vandals failed when Basilicus defied him. He was known as the \'93Great Thracian,\'94 and \'93The Butcher.\'94
 A pope with this name issued the }{\b\i\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080 Provenditissimus Deus}{\b\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080  and }{\b\i\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080 Rerum Novarum}{\b\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080 . The tenth pope with this name 
was a Medici and gave Henry VIII the title \'93Defender of the Faith.\'94 That pope also clashed with}{\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080  Martin Luther. For ten points, name this name used by Byzantine Rulers and popes, a lion-like name.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid812080 Leo}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 14.  A city described by this adjective is the seat of Westchester County in New York. J.R. Ewing wore this kind of hat despite the fact that there was nothing good about him.\~
Wilkie Collins wrote about a woman of this sort, as did John Webster when referring to a countess. People of this variety like Apple products, threaten to move to}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
 Canada, and the Sunday New York Times, according to a popular blog. Shaun with this last name won the gold medal in the snowboarding halfpipe in the 2006 Olympics.\~
 For ten points, name this color, which describes some really big house that Barack Obama lives in D.C. 
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 White}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 \page 15.  Among the difficulties with this concept is that it is only defined by its inventor in essentially religious terms; it is hard for psychologists to identify.\~
 Among those these is eupsychia, the culture that would be generated if 1,000 people with this condition lived on an island and built a utopia. Unlike the other concepts it is grouped with, it can never be fully satisfied.\~It stands at the}{
\fs20\insrsid812080  apex of a group which includes physiological, safety, esteem, and cognitive needs.\~ For ten points, name this psychological concept, identified by Abraham Maslow at the top of his hierarchy of needs.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Self-actualization}{\fs20\insrsid812080 \~(or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 self-transcendance}{\fs20\insrsid812080 )
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 16.  One of the men 
who resigned had previously served as Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, and Defense, and took his office on the resignation of Richard Kleindienst.  The day before this event, John Stennis became involved when the President asked him to review 
10 hours of tape and summarize it for an ongoing investigation.  White House spokesman }{\fs20\insrsid812080 Ronald Ziegler made the announcement at 8:25 pm, detailing the one firing and two resignations that had taken place. When they wouldn\rquote 
t remove Archibald Cox as special prosecutor, the resignations of William Rickelshaus and Elliot Richardson were accepted, and Robert Bork was left to do the dirty deed.  For ten points, name this October 20, 1973 event.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Saturday Night Massacre
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 17.  Its calendar has its 28th day be called "Earth" and its 2}{\b\fs20\insrsid3632405 9th day "Sacred Invocation." It}{\b\fs20\insrsid812080  hold}{\b\fs20\insrsid3632405 s}{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 
 that the bottom half of the universe was the second of the seven creations and one hero of it discovers fire in a rock. That hero is Hoshang,  a descendant of }{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 Gayomard.}{\fs20\insrsid812080  Sinners will be punished 
for three days in the end, as Saoshyant will square off against evil.}{\fs20\insrsid3632405  Its follwers pray in front of }{\fs20\insrsid812080 Fire Temples and their dead reside in towers of silence.  For ten points, name this religion whose texts like}
{\i\fs20\insrsid812080  Visperard}{\fs20\insrsid812080  and }{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 Yasna}{\fs20\insrsid812080  are found in the }{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 Avesta}{\fs20\insrsid812080 , w
hich relates tales about Ahura Mazda, founded by a namesake Persian prophet. 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Zoroastrian}{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 ism }{\fs20\insrsid812080 (accept }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Mazda}{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 ism}{\fs20\insrsid812080 )
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 18.  This is a generalized form of the Tonks-Girardeau gas. Feschbach Resonances can be found in this gas that is at the center of the Thomas-Fermi Equation, a case of the Gross-Pitaevski Equation. Sometimes formed using}{
\fs20\insrsid812080  rubidium, Cornell and Wiemann first synthesized this double-eponymous material. For ten points, name this state of matter cooled to extremely low temperatures, named for an Indian and German Scientist.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Bose-Einstein Condensate}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 19.  One sculpture depicting him, residing in the Borghese in Rome, shows a facial expression modeled on the artist himself as he works the marble.\~ More famous than the}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
 Bernini version is another, earlier work, with a feather running on the figure\rquote s thigh and showing him holding a sword.\~ A third version was 
intended for the buttress atop Florence Cathedral but is now in front of the Palazzo Vecchio, shows him before battle instead of after, but, like the other version, in the nude.\~
 For ten points, name this Biblical figure, depicted in bronze by Donatello and marble by Michelangelo.
\par Answer: }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 David}{\fs20\insrsid812080 \~
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 20.  The beginning of this work has a team of soldiers attempt to retrieve a military satellite in Piedmont. However, the soldiers die as well as the nearby town. This mystery is resolved when the government activates }{
\fs20\insrsid812080 
Wildfire, the team of scientists who discover that it is a sulfur-based microbe causing the deaths. For ten points, identify this Michael Crichton thriller about a microorganism that is capable of rapidly clotting blood and degrading plastic.
\par Answer}{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 : }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Andromeda Strain}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 TB. He set up a Holy Synod to lead the church and recruited foreigners for the army, enabling increased professionalism in it.  He faced down the Old Believers and a rebellion led by Stenka Razin.  His establishment of }{
\fs20\insrsid812080 chattel slavery enab
led the industrialization of the country as it provided laborers for the new factories, which he started after a grand tour of Europe.  For ten points, name this Romanov, succeeded by Catherine the Great, who worked to modernize Russia during his rule fro
m 1696 to 1725.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Peter I}{\fs20\insrsid812080  (}{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 the Great}{\fs20\insrsid812080 ) (accept either the regnal number or the appellation, prompt on \'93Peter\'94 alone)
\par 
\par 
\par \page 1 .This bonus has three stages.  Name these psychologists who invented more stages for ten points each.
\par [10]His four stages of development culminate in the formal operational stage, in which children can think in abstract terms about the world.
\par Answer: Jean }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Piaget}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10]This Harvard psychologist developed six stages of moral development, starting with fear of punishment.
\par Answer: Lawrence }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Kohlberg}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10]His eight-stage theory of development starts with trust vs. mistrust.
\par Answer: Erik }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Erikson
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid812080 2. It basically consisted of Venezuela, Ecuador, Panama, and one more country, and only lasted from\~ 1819 to 1830.\~ For ten points each:
\par [10]Name this former South American nation.
\par Answer: Republic of }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Gran Columbia}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10] President for most of Gran Columbia\rquote s history, this \'93Liberator\'94 failed in a bid for dictator shortly before the country fell apart.
\par Answer: Simon }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Bolivar}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10]Gran Columbia\rquote s war with this country led to a territorial dispute between it and Ecuador hinging on a disputed treaty.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Peru}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par 
\par 3.  Identify some stuff about Pierre Lapalce, the most famous physicist}{\fs20\insrsid3632405  in the world}{\fs20\insrsid812080 , for ten points each.
\par [10] He believed that some stars were so massive that their escape velocity must be greater than the speed of light, thereby postulated a precursor to these entities.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 black hole}{\fs20\insrsid812080 s
\par [10] Lapalce formulated a being that knows the position and momentum of every particle to every particle in the World. Using that information, the being would know everything about the beginning and the end. What is the name given to that being?
\par ANSWER: Lapalace's }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Demon}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10] Laplace's coefficients are harmonics described with this adjective, whose coordinate system using r, theta and phi. 
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 spherical
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid812080 4.  It is the tale of Buck and his adventures as an Alaskan sled dog.\~ For ten points each:
\par [10] Name this American novel, including characters like Spitz and John Thornton.
\par Answer: }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 The Call of the Wild}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10]This former cannery worker and prospector wrote }{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 The Iron Heel}{\fs20\insrsid812080  and }{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 White Fang}{\fs20\insrsid812080  in addition to}{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 The Call of the Wild.}{\fs20\insrsid812080 

\par Answer: Jack }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 London}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10]This short story, about an inexperienced prospector\rquote s efforts to save himself after falling through the ice into a creek in bitterly cold weather, is probably Jack London\rquote s best known effort in that genre.
\par Answer: \'93}{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 To Build A Fire}{\fs20\insrsid812080 \'94\~
\par }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid812080 5.  Name these works of Ludwig von Beethoven for ten points each.
\par [10] This, Beethoven\rquote s last symphony, includes a setting of the \'93Ode to Joy.\'94
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Ninth}{\fs20\insrsid812080  (accept }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Choral}{\fs20\insrsid812080 )
\par [10] Originally dedicated to Napoleon, Beethoven changed the dedication to this symphony to \'93A Great Man.\'94
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Third}{\fs20\insrsid812080  (accept }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Eroica}{\fs20\insrsid812080 )
\par [10] Beethoven\rquote s Piano Concerto number 5, to which this name is given, was probably dedicated to his friend Johann Baptist Cramer.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Emperor}{\fs20\insrsid812080 \~
\par 
\par \page 6.  Not every state gets the same days off.  For ten points each:
\par [10]This President of the Confederacy\rquote s birthday is a holiday in Alabama on the first Monday in June.
\par Answer: Jefferson }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Davis}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10]The Red Sox play at 11:05 am and the Boston Marathon is run on this day, the third Monday in April.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Patriots}{\fs20\insrsid812080  Day
\par [10]This founder of the United Farm Workers is honored in California on March 31}{\fs20\super\insrsid812080 st}{\fs20\insrsid812080 .
\par Answer: Cesar }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Chavez
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid812080 7. Name these Jewish holidays for ten points each.
\par [10]Taking place from 15 to 22 in the month of Nisan, this commemorates the delivery of the Israelites from Egyptian bondage.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Passover}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10]It is not ok for teenagers to drink on this holiday, which commemorates the victory over Haman and whose story is recounted in the Book of Esther.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Purim}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10]Taking place five days after Yom Kippur, some folks spend this holiday outside.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Sukkot}{\fs20\insrsid812080  (accept Feast of }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Tabernacles}{\fs20\insrsid812080 )\~
\par 
\par 8.  Identify the following organs of the human being, For ten points each.
\par [10] The primary role of this organ is to maintain homeostatic balance of bodily fluids by filtering the blood and excreting the nitrogenous wastes to the bladder.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Kidney}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10] This organ assists in digestion of food by storing a yellow-green fluid known as bile.
\par ANSEWR: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Gallbladder}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10] In the anterior portion of the chest is this organ, whose main function is to store T lymphocytes until maturity. 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Thymus}{\fs20\insrsid812080 \~
\par 
\par 9.  It typically consists of 17 syllables in a 5-7-5 form and often depicted nature.\~ For ten points each:
\par [10]Name this poetic form used to write \'93Record of a Weather-Exposed Skeleton\'94 and \'93The Monkey\rquote s Raincoat.\'94
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Haiku}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10] Considered the first master of the form, this teacher, whose nickname refers to the banana hut he lived in, contributed works like }{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 The Seashell Game.}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par Answer: Matsuo }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Basho}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10] Basho wrote this travelogue about climbing to the heart of the country in dangerous feudal Japan.
\par Answer: The }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Narrow Road to the Deep North}{\fs20\insrsid812080  or The }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Narrow Road to the Interior}{\fs20\insrsid812080 \~
\par 
\par 10.  Among their greatest hits were \'93Sweet Home Alabama\'94 and \'93What\rquote s Your Name,\'94 and their name was a backhanded tribute to their gym teacher.\~ For ten points each:
\par [10]Name this Southern rock band.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Lynyrd Skynyrd}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10]\'94If I leave here tomorrow, would you still remember me?\'94 is the first line of this massive Lynyrd Skynyrd hit.
\par Answer: \'93}{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Free Bird}{\fs20\insrsid812080 \'94
\par [10]This lead singer and primary songwriter of the band was killed when their plane crashed in 1977.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 R}{\fs20\insrsid812080 onnie }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Van Zant}{\fs20\insrsid812080 \~
\par 
\par 11.  Identify these things relating to the work of Parmigianino, for ten points each.
\par [10] His self portrait features an enlarged hand because it was painted in one of these objects.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid812080 ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Convex}{\b\fs20\insrsid812080  }{\fs20\insrsid812080 mirror
}{\b\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid812080 [10] He painted this woman with a long neck.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Virgin Mary}{\fs20\insrsid812080  (accept equivalents, accept }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Madonna}{\fs20\insrsid812080 )
\par [10] Parmigianino\rquote s paintings can be classified as part of this era\rquote s work that predates Baroque; it was part of the High Middle Ages and includes El Greco and Tintoretto.}{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid812080 ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Mannerism}{\fs20\insrsid812080  (accept word forms)
\par }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 
\par }{\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080 \page 12.  Identify the following about agreements that affected the US in the 20th century, for ten points each.
\par [10] This doubly-eponymous treaty was broken when Germany invaded Poland. It outlawed war, and like Swaziland, the US has not followed the terms of this accord since. 
\par ANSWER:}{\b\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080  }{\b\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid812080 Kellogg-Briand}{\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080  Pact}{\b\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080 
\par }{\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080 [10] The Bryan-Charmorro treaty dealt with the United States being allowed to build a canal in this country. It also allowed for the leasing of the Corn Islands.
\par ANSWER:}{\b\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080  }{\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080 Republic}{\b\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080  }{\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080 of}{\b\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080  }{\b\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid812080 Nicaragua
\par }{\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080 [10] This secretary of state names a treaty with Banau-Vanilla treaty allowed the US to build a canal in Panama.
\par ANSWER:}{\b\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080  }{\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080 John }{\b\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid812080 Hay
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid812080 13.  After killing his wife and family, he was presented with some work to do to atone.\~ For ten points each:
\par [10] Hera presented this man with 12 labors, including cleaning King Augeas\rquote s stables.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Heracles}{\fs20\insrsid812080  (accept }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Hercules}{\fs20\insrsid812080 , but give a stern look to people who didn\rquote t notice that we\rquote re using Greek names in this question)
\par [10] Heracles used fire and his nephew Iolaus\rquote s help to dispatch this nine-headed menace.
\par Answer: the Lernean }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Hydra}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10] Heracles also had help from his friends in fighting off the Amazons after dispatching this woman, their queen, and grabbing her belt.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Hippolyte}{\fs20\insrsid812080 \~}{\b\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid812080 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par 14.  Ironically, he was supported for most of his life by the capitalist efforts of his friend Friedrich Engels.\~ For the stated number of points:
\par [10]For ten, name this German who wrote the Communist Manifesto with Engels.
\par Answer: Karl Heinrich }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Marx}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10]Also for ten, in this three volume economic masterwork, Marx explicates his labor theory of value.
\par Answer: Das }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Kapital}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [5,5]Marx divided the world into the capitalist and working classes.\~ Give his names for those classes for five poitns each.
\par Answers: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Bourgeoisie}{\fs20\insrsid812080  and}{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080  proletariat}{\fs20\insrsid812080 \~\line 
\par 15.  Co-edited by Jean Le Rond d\rquote Alembert, it endeavored to collect all human knowledge in seventeen volumes of text and twelve of plates.  For ten points each:
\par [10]Name this collection released in 1772.
\par Answer: }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Encylopedia}{\fs20\insrsid812080  (accept }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Encyclop\'e9die}{\i\fs20\insrsid812080 : Ou, Dictionnaire raisonn\'e9 des sciences, des arts, et des m\'e9tiers}{\fs20\insrsid812080 )
\par [10]This playwright of Dorval: Or, The Test of Virtue was the primary editor of the Encyclopedia.
\par Answer: Denis }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Diderot}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10]This Physiocrat and deviser of the Tableau Econimique wrote the economics articles in the Encylopedia.
\par Answer: Francois }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Quesnay
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid812080 16. Name some European rivers for ten points each.
\par [10]This historic river flows through London.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Thames}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10]Rising in the Swiss mountains, it forms Switzerland\rquote s northeastern border with Germany, then flows through the Netherlands and empties into the North Sea.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Rhine}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10]When this river was linked to the Baltic Sea in the 19}{\fs20\super\insrsid812080 th}{\fs20\insrsid812080  century, it greatly improved its area\rquote s economic prospects.\~ It and its massive tributary system drains 41% of the European continent.

\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Volga}{\fs20\insrsid812080 \~
\par 
\par }{\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080 \page 17. Identify the state home to these rebellions, for ten points each.
\par [10] George Washington and Henry Lee marched into this state to put down a rebellion caused by a tax on whiskey. Robert Philson and Herman Husband were arrested.
\par ANSWER:}{\b\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080  }{\b\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid812080 Pennsylvania}{\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080 
\par [10] Jacob Leisler attacked Francis Nicholson during the Glorious Revolution in this state.
\par ANSWER:}{\b\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080  }{\b\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid812080 New York}{\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080 
\par [10] A slave turned carpenter who won his freedom by winning the lottery planned an uprising on Bastille Day in this state in 1822.
\par ANSWER:}{\b\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080  }{\b\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid812080 South Carolina}{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par 18. This author wondered \'93How can we tell the dancer from the dance?\'94 For ten points each,
\par [10] Name this poet who wrote about the \'93indifferent beak\'94 in \'93Leda and the Swan.\'94
\par ANSWER: William Butler }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Yeats
\par }{\fs20\insrsid812080 [10] This poem mentions how the \'93ceremony of innocence is drowned,\'94 in addition to \'93things fall apart / the centre cannot hold.\'94
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Second Coming}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10] While discussing \'93Sailing to\'94 this place, W.B. Yeats noted \'93There is no country for old men.\'94
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Byzantium}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par 
\par 19. Answer the following about an organic compound, for ten points each.
\par [10] Also known as ethanoic acid, this weak acid does not completely dissociate in water and is one of the primary ingredients in vinegar.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Acetic Acid}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10] Acetic acid is classified by its COOH group which is this type of organic functional group.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Carboxylic Acids}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10] Acetic acid devoid of this substance is referred to as its glacial variety.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 water}{\fs20\insrsid812080  or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 H2O}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par 
\par 20. Name these groups with something in common for ten points each.
\par [10]These guys included the Action Squads that helped Benito Mussolini March on Rome in 1922-23.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Blackshirts}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10]The Nazi SA were known by this similar nickname.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Brownshirts}{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par [10]The fall of the Han dynasty may have been assisted by a 184 AD peasant revolt by people who wore this article of clothing.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Yellow turbans}{\fs20\insrsid812080  (accept }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 Yellow scarves}{\fs20\insrsid812080 )
\par 
\par }{\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid812080 
\par 
\par }{\fs20\kerning28\insrsid812080 
\par }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid812080 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid812080 
\par 
\par }{\f36\fs22\insrsid812080 
\par }}