{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff36\stshfdbch0\stshfloch36\stshfhich36\stshfbi36\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f36\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}{\f246\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f247\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f249\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f250\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f251\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f252\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f253\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f254\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f606\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri CE;}{\f607\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Cyr;}{\f609\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Greek;}{\f610\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Tur;}
{\f613\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 \styrsid880587 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid880587 Normal (Web);}{
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 \slink17 \ssemihidden \styrsid880587 Body Text;}{\*\cs17 \additive \f0\fs24 
\sbasedon10 \slink16 \slocked \ssemihidden \styrsid880587 Body Text Char;}}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0{\lsdlockedexcept Normal;heading 1;heading 2;heading 3;heading 4;heading 5;heading 6;heading 7;heading 8;heading 9;toc 1;toc 2;toc 3;toc 4;toc 5;toc 6;toc 7;toc 8;toc 9;caption;Title;Default Paragraph Font;Body Text;Subtitle;Strong;Emphasis;Table Grid;}}
{\*\rsidtbl \rsid665397\rsid687125\rsid880587\rsid2446457\rsid2762370\rsid3157097\rsid3741253\rsid5311150\rsid5337403\rsid7279635\rsid8022542\rsid8814286\rsid9440155\rsid9520212\rsid15675695}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.5604;}{\info{\author bsaxton}
{\operator Ike}{\creatim\yr2009\mo1\dy23\hr19}{\revtim\yr2009\mo2\dy1\hr23\min48}{\version8}{\edmins56}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords3486}{\nofchars19874}{\*\company Hewlett-Packard}{\nofcharsws23314}{\vern24689}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1440\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct
\asianbrkrule\rsidroot8022542\newtblstyruls\nogrowautofit \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid665397\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8814286 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 1. 
He wrote about a soldier with a prosthetic arm, Gotz von Berlichingen. Another play features the Duke of Alba, }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 Egmont.}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370  He described an }{
\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 Italian Journey}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370  and wrote about Captain, Ottilie, Charlotte, and Eduard shuffling spouses like a double displacement reaction in}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370  }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 Elective Affinities}{\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 
. For ten points, name this man who wrote about Lotte and Young Werther that also described a man followed home by a poodle, }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 Faust}{\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 .
\par ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 Goethe
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid880587 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8814286 {\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 2. One lawyer in this case wrote }{\b\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 A Fool's Errand}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370  and }{\b\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 Bricks Without Straw}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 
. Chris Cain arrested the plaintiff in it, and David Brewer recused himself from this case. William Rehnquist said it should be reaffirmed and Henry Brown delivered the majority opinion against Albion Tourgee. }{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5337403\charrsid2762370 It occurred because a man who was}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5337403\charrsid2762370  one-eighth black refused to stay in a blacks-only car while on a train. }{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 For ten points, name this decision affirming the "separate but equal" doctrine and was overturned by Brown v. Board.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 Plessy}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370  v. Ferguson or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 Ferguson}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370  v. Plessy
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid880587 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8814286 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 3. 
This son of Nephthys is shown as having dominion over nine bows, and his daughter was the goddess of freshness and purification. In the presence of a judge and a scribe, this "Opener of the Ways"}{\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 
 operated in the Hall of Ma'at and determined whether the jaws of Ammut or Fields of Peace would be the destination of the dead. For ten points, name this Egyptian deity who weighted hearts against a feather of truth and has a jackal-head.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 Anubis
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid880587 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 
\par 4. }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 The most studied form of these creatures use was studied b
y rightward and leftward transcription and use Q Antitermination. That creature of this sort was denoted with the letter lambda.. They can reproduce by adding there DNA into a vector and forcing that vector to reproduce, or the alternate to the}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370  lysogenic cycle, the lytic cycle. For ten points, name these viruses that infect bacteria, named for their appearance of eating them up.
\par ANSWER: bacterio}{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 phage}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 s
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8814286 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 5. The first battle at this site saw one side
\rquote s successful defense led by General Auchlinchek.\~ The second was set up by the failure of their opponents\rquote \~attack at Alam Halfa. The battle saw an assault on the prepared \'93Devil\rquote s Garden,\'94
 containing an estimated half-million antitank mines.\~ Operation Lightfoot failed to reach Kidney Ridge, and in fact the attack bogged down until}{\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 
 General Montgomery launched his Supercharge attack on November 1, 1942.\~ With this attack, Rommel\rquote s front was pierced and he had to withdraw.\~ For ten points, name this pivotal battle of the World War II African front, in which British su
periority in the theater was confirmed.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 El Alamein}{\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 \~
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid880587 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2446457 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 6. 
He designed a crescent arch for the Baghdad opera house and a planetarium for Gordon Strong on Sugarloaf Mountain. He also did the Ravine Bluffs for his attorney, and his }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid5337403\charrsid2762370 apprentice}{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370  Anthony Puttnam, designed the Blue Sky Mausoleum. His hotels include Lake Geneva's Biltmore and Tokyo}{\f0\fs20\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 
's Imperial Hotel. He constructed a winter home in Arizona, a summer home in Wisconsin, and the Kaufmann family's vacation home in Pennsylvania and a museum in New York City. For ten points, name this creator of Fallingwater, and the Guggenheim Museum.

\par ANSWER: Frank}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 Lloyd Wright}{\f0\fs20\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370  (prompt on partial)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid880587 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2446457 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 7. 
Aircraft from Cooktown and Mareeba participated in this battle. The USS }{\b\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 Hornet}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370  and USS }{\b\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 
Enterprise}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370  could not enter this battle that saw the }{\b\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 Neosho}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370  refueled the }{
\b\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 Astoria}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 . Admiral Takagi was demoted in the aftermath and the }{\b\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 Shokaku}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370  and }{\b\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 Zuihaku}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370  could not participate in the next battle. Even though the U.S. lost the}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370  Lexington and the Yorktown was crippled, the Japanese abandoned Port Moresby in, for ten points what first battle that saw aircraft carriers engage each other that preceded Midway?
\par ANSWER: Battle of the }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 Coral Sea}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid880587 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2446457 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 8. A Doctor of Physick explicitly referen
ces Livy in this work. An incident with farting involves the astronomer Nicolas tricking Absolon so he can get with his much younger wife Alison. Alice relates how an ex husband would read stories about wicked women to her. Another speaker describes three
 men}{\f0\fs20\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 
 who go looking for Death, and surprisingly die. After finishing his narrative, the Pardoner tries to sell fake relics to his companions. For ten points, give the name for the stories told by such characters as the Miller and the Wife of Bath, an early 
work of English literature by Geoffrey Chaucer, about pilgrims on the road. 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2446457 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 ANSWER: The }{
\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 Canterbury Tales}{\f0\fs20\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid880587 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid2446457\charrsid2762370 9. }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
Besides CO2, recent studies suggest that molecules containing this element have caused destruction in the ozone layer. Halogenation of alkanes using this element is less selective due to it having an earlier transition state. In its diatomic form, it is a
 gas and the Chemical Weapons Convention categorizes this gas}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 as a schedule 3 pulmonary agent. Legitimate uses include}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
 bleaching and disinfectants and these are commonly used in swimming pools. Named after the Greek word for pale green, FTP, identify this chemical element whose atomic number is 17. 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid8814286\charrsid2762370 ANSWER}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 : }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 Chlorine}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3741253 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 10. 
One character in this work is constantly followed a
round by butterflies and another was tied to a chestnut tree in a backyard.  Other interesting events include a rain of yellow flowers and a child born with a pig tail.  That child was the result of a dalliance between Amaranta Ursula and}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  Aureliano.  Begin
ning with a character in front of a firing squad recalling the day his father took him to see ice for the first time, it ends with the destruction of the town of Macondo.  For ten points, name this history of the Buendias, the work of Gabriel Garcia Marqu
ez.
\par Answer: }{\b\i\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 One Hundred Years of Solitude}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  (accept }{\b\i\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Cien a\'f1os de soledad}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 )

\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par 11. Part of this movie sees the protagonist investigate hexagonal glass cylinders made in Venice and an amazingly rare orchid from South America that only kills humans. The main charac
ter of this movie fights for a parachute from an airplane pilot in midair, kills a man by impaling him }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid9520212\charrsid2762370 through}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  a }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
piano, is nearly strangled by an anaconda and investigates the disappearance of the titular vehicle from Hugo Drax, who employs Jaws. For ten points, name this James Bond movie which takes place in outer space.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Moonraker}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid880587 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3741253 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 12. His most famous work involves the usage of a language whose longest word, at 319 letters, means \'93wombat.\'94
 His most recent work, in which Vilem Rieger is ousted from his chancellorship by pompous former deputy Vlastik Klein, premiered in 2008. His first solo play, in which Hugo Pludek loses his identity, satirizes totalitarianism through the nonsensical langu
age of the Liquidation Agency. His 1975 play }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Audience}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  incorporates his experience in a brewery after his banishment from the theater, a measure that coincided with}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 the confiscation of his passport}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  as a consequence of his activism during 1968\rquote s Prague Spring
. For ten points, name this Czech activist and politician, Czechoslovakia\rquote s first non-Communist leader since 1948, who assumed the post of interim President during the Velvet Revolution.
\par ANSWER: Vaclav }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Havel}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid880587 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3741253 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 13. The Terminus Est is one of these objects th
at appear in Genis\rquote s Indignation, as well as Golden Sun\rquote s Ragnarok. In Melee, a particular one has a \'93sweet spot,\'94 while another named Ragnell combats Alondite.  The wavey style is exhibited by }{
\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 flammenschwert}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  and }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 flamberge}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 , while}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
 Narsil is the one that Aragon owns. For ten points, name these tools that link Hrunting to Beowulf, Durendal to Roland, and Excalibur to King Arthur.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 sword}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid880587 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3741253 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 14. 
One theory that expanded the work of this man was Clayton Alderfer\rquote s regression theory, and the  ERG theory or Existence, Relatedness and Growth. He differentiated between humanistic and mechanistic science in }{
\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 The Psychology of Science}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  and wrote }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Eupsychian}{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  Management}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 .  He gave credit to Kurt Goldstein in developing a phase where there is a resistance to enculturation
, a desire for solitude, and peak experiences. He argued that esteem, love and belonging, safety and physiological needs must be satisfied before self-actualization. For ten }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5337403\charrsid2762370 points}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 , name this creator of a pyramidal hierarchy of needs.
\par Answer: Abraham Harold}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Maslow
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3741253 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par 15. The protagonist of this work breaks his arm after saving his love from a buckling horse. One character in this work is a schoolmaster posing as a barber who calls himself Little Benjamin. Mrs. Waters receives a pension in the end
 of this work, and Square absolves the title character of his guilt. It begins when the protagonist is accused}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
 of stealing a duck and pick pocketing from Bilfil. For ten points, name this work, in which the title character lived on Squire Allworthy\rquote s land and loves Sophia Western, history of a foundling by Henry Fielding..
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3741253 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 ANSWER: The History of }{
\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Tom}{\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Jones}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 , A Foundling
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid880587 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par 
\par 16. }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
A device used to calculate inductance using resistance and capacitance is a type of Wheatstone Bridge named after this scientist, and with Weichert, names a model of viscoelasticity. Rolf Landauer explored this man's thought experiment involving two chamb
ers of separated gas and a creature known as his demon. He also names a probability distribution}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370  that can be used to model temperature and atom interaction along with }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5337403\charrsid2762370 
Boltzmann}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 . For ten points, name this Scottish scientist that modified Ampere's law, one of his 4 namesake Equations.
\par ANSWER: James Clerk }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 Maxwell}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid880587 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3741253 {\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 17. One person during this period offered his life so that Koreans would kill him and his country would start a w
ar. When he failed, that man, Satsuma led a rebellion named for his domain. Another revolt during this period started at }{\b\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Choshu}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
's capital of Hagi. Another revolt was the }{\b\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Saga}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  Rebellion. Other events during this period were the government banning swords, an
d the destruction of a class system. For ten points, identify this period of enlightenment in Japanese history, after the Tokugawa shogunate fell.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Meiji}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  Restoration or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Meiji}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
 Period or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Meiji}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  Renewal or (you get the idea.)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid880587 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par 18. }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 Noether\rquote s theorem rela
tes physical action with one of these types of principles. The Hamiltonian in mechanics can be used to refer to a principle of this type. One scientific principle of this type allows for the center o}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid9520212\charrsid2762370 
f mass to travel with a predictable path}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 ,}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid9520212\charrsid2762370  despite internal forces,}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
 while another type of this principle occurs because the sum of kinetic and potential types of a certain quantity is always equal.}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
 For ten points, name these laws, which apply to momentum, energy and mass, in which a system as a whole does not change in quantity.
\par }{\f0\fs20\cf1\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 ANSWER}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 : }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 Laws of Conservation}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 19. }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 The protagonist of this work is thrown in jail once for attacking Connor, the foreman who raped that man\rquote 
s wife, and again later for assaulting a man who cheats him out of a hundred dollar bill. Stanislovas, Dede Antanas and Marija work in horrible conditions in Chicago factories in this work. Ona loses her house and dies in childbirth. Her husband is Lithua
nian immigrant }{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
Jurgis Rudkus, who labors in a fertilizer plant and a steel mill. This novel led to the passage of the Pure Food and Drug Act. For ten points, name this socialist expose of meatpacking industry by Upton Sinclair.
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 Jungle
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid687125 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 20. }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 This 
range boasts the highest active volcano in the world, one whose name translates as Source of the Salt River. Another mountain has a summit that is the farthest from the Equator. With a formation beginning in the Jurassic period, it is undergoing an orogen
y at this day. Paul Gussfeldt was the first person to try to climb the highest peak in this range, while Edward Fitzgerald was the first to succeed; today climbers enter from the}{\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 
 Mendoza province to climb a mountain in this range. For ten points, name this mountain range that runs from Colombia to Chile, and features Aconcagua in Brazil.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 Andes
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 \page 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3741253 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 1. 
They included Sir John Suckling and Thomas Carew, and got their name because of their loyalty to Charles I.  For ten points each:
\par [10]Name this group of English poets.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Cavalier}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  poets
\par [10] Among the most famous Cavalier poets, he wrote the line \'93Stone bars do not a prison make / Nor iron bars a cage\'94 in his poem \'93To Althea, from Prison.\'94
\par Answer: Richard }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Lovelace}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par [10]His poem \'93To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time\'94 appears in the collection }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Hesperides}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 .
\par Answer: Robert }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Herrick}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid687125 {\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3741253 {\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5337403\charrsid2762370 2. For ten points each, identify these figures instrumental in the history of Hispaniola.}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par [10] This man who attempted to kill Venezuelan leader Romulo Betancourt instituted the Parsley Massacre on Haitians.
\par ANSWER: Rafael}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Leonidas}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Trujillo}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Molina}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 [10] This Haitian Revolutionary was brou}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5337403\charrsid2762370 ght to power by Leger-Feliciter }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Sonthorax and fought agains
t Andre Rigaud and Gabriel Hedouville. 
\par ANSWER: Toussaint}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid5337403\charrsid2762370 L'Ouverture}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
or Toussaine}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Breda}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par [10] His personal militia was the }{\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Tonton Macoutes}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 , and he supported Jean Price Mars movement of negritude. He claimed to be a }{
\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 hougan}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 , and used Baron Semedi to promote his image as a voodoo priest.
\par ANSWER: Francois}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Duvalier}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  (prompt on Papa }{
\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Doc}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 ,)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid687125 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3741253 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 3. Among his paintings are }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
The Lictors Bring to Brutus the Body of His Sons}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  and }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 The Distribution of the Eagle Standards}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 . For ten points each,
\par [10] Name this painter who also painted }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Leonidas at Thermopylae}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 , }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Napoleon in his Study}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 , and }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 The Coronation of Napoleon}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 .
\par ANSWER: Jacque}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 -}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Louis}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 David}{\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 [10] This David painting shows a philosopher pointing upwards as he is about to grab hold a goblet of hemlock.
\par ANSWER: The}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Death of Socrates}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par [10] In this David painting, 3 brothers are about to accept 3 weapons from a man holding 3 swords. In }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5337403\charrsid2762370 the background}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  are 3 arches and to the right are 3 weeping sisters}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid9520212\charrsid2762370  plus another woman}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 .
\par ANSWER: The}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Oath of the Horatii}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid687125 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3741253 {\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 4. 
Everyone knows that Theodore Roosevelt split the Republican Party vote in the Election of 1912, enabling a Woodrow Wilson victory, but, for ten points each:
\par [10] While Roosevelt\rquote s third party was popularly known as the Bull Moose Party, it was officially known by this name, and included such members as Frank Munsey and Jane Addams.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Progressive}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  Party
\par [10] Challenging Roosevelt, Wilson, and the incumbent Taft was this Socialist running in the second of what would be five presidential campaigns between 1908 and 1924.
\par ANSWER: Eugene V. }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Debs
\par }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 [10] Debs\rquote  most successful run came in 1920, when he was actually imprisoned after violating this 1917 legislation, aimed at subduing alleged political malcontents.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Espionage}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  Act
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid687125 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3741253 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 5. Located in Alaska, it is the highest mountain in the United States.  For ten points each:
\par [10]Name this mountain.
\par Answer: Mount }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 McKinley}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par [10]Mount McKinley can be found in this park, named after the local Native American name for the mountain.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Denali}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  National Park
\par [10]Mount McKinley was first climbed in 1913 by two men.  Name either for ten points.
\par Answers: Hudson }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Stuck}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  and Harry }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Karstens}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15675695 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 6.}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  This type of reproductive body
 can be divided into an exocarp, mesocarp and endocarp, wherein the exocarp is the peel, the mesocarp is the pith, and the endocarp the flesh. For ten points each,
\par [10] Name this reproductive structure found on plants.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Fruit}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 
\par [10] This division includes plants with fruit; it also includes plants with flowers.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Angiosperm}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 s }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 or}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 
Angiospermae}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  or}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Magnoliophyta}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 

\par [10] Another method of plant reproduction involves the use of these entities present during the diploid phase in the alternation of generation
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2762370 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Spores}{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid687125 {\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3741253 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 7. Name some Americans who ran for President, for ten points each.
\par [10] This man predicted that by 1982 Doomsday will be here. He also claimed to predict terror attacks in 2007, but they never came.
\par ANSWER: Marion Gordon P}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 at }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Robertson}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par [10] This man sparked racial riots after Gavin Cato died by saying asking Jews to come over to his house anti-}{\f0\fs20\insrsid5337403\charrsid2762370 semitically}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 . 
\par ANSWER: Alfred Charles}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Sharpton}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par [10] This ex-presidential candidate literally said ""You know, education, if you make the most of it, you study hard, you do your homework and you make an effort to be smart, you can do well. If you don't, you get stuck in Iraq."
\par ANSWER: John Forbes}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Kerry
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid687125 {\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15675695 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 8.}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  
Pervaporation is one variety of this process; it involves allowing liquids to pass through non-porous materials. }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5337403\charrsid2762370 The vacuum type of this process involves lowering the pressure. }{
\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 For ten points each.
\par [10] Name this process that separates mixtures by boiling points.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Distillation}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  (accept word forms)
\par [10] This is the term for  a material that whose boiled and pre-boiled components have the same ratio of pure compounds. Such mixtures cannot be separated.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Azeotrope}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  or (prompt on }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Constant boiling}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  mixtures)
\par [10] This type of distillation makes use of Henry\rquote s Law and is applied when materials are sensitive to heat. It involves reducing the pressure of the solution to force material to evaporate.
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2762370 {\f0\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 ANSWER: }{\b\f0\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Steam}{\f0\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  distillation}{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid687125 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3741253 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 9. Name these stars that are close to the sun for ten points each.
\par [10]Known as the \'93dog star,\'94 this is the brightest star in the sky.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Sirius}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par [10]The closest star to the sun, it is third brightest.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Alpha Centauri}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  (accept }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Rigel Kentaurius}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 )
\par [10]The brightest star in Canis Minor, it is 11.4 light years from the sun.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Procyon}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid687125 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3741253 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 10. }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
Belgian politics is structurally similar, yet different from the United States, but most people don\rquote t know about Belgian politics, for ten points each.
\par [10] The ministers and secretaries of states that form the federal branch of government is one of these types of government in which many parties participate.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Coalition}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 government}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 [10] Belgium uses this type of representation, distinguished from plurality, in which the winner does }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid5337403\charrsid2762370 not}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  take all, but rather representation is more equal.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Proportional}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 representation}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 

\par }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 [10] Examples of these entities in Belgium include the CSC and the FGBT. Not only do they protect their employees but they support or stan
d against issues such as abortion and educational spending, unlike the US.
\par ANSWER: Trade}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 unions}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 or labor}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 unions
\par }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 [Note: Voting is required by law in Belgium]
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid687125 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15675695 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 11. }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 
Name these things about highways tangentially related to Kirun Sankaran\rquote s love life
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5337403\charrsid2762370 A: Officially called Highway 80, it runs between Basra and Kuwait City and saw the destruction of retreating Iraqi military forces by American warplanes on February 26-27, 1991}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 
\par answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Highway of Death}{\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 B: This 1979 AC/DC album, the last to be recorded by Bon Scott, features on its eponymous title track such lyrics as \'93Living easy, living free/ Season ticket on a one-way ride.\'94
\par answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Highway to Hell}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 
\par C: This term is used to describe particularly dangerous or confusing highway interchanges, such as the I-20/59/65 interchange in Birmingham, AL. 
\par answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Malfunction Junction}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid687125 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 
\par 12}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 . }{\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 Name these types of goods for ten points each.
\par [10] These types of goods have negative cross price }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5337403\charrsid2762370 elasticities}{\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 
 of demand. They exist in a perfect variety, where in order to consume one, the other must be available. Examples include a right shoe, the left show is this type of good.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 complementary}{\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370  good}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15675695 {\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 [10] These goods are hypothetical and their preference is
 affected by their price, not supply or demand.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid687125 {\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 Veblen}{\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370  good}{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 [10] Gross domestic product only counts this type of good, like a copper fence, but not the semi-processed copper ore a smelter might produce.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 Final}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 good}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid880587 {\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3741253 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 13}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 . 
Works of Poe, for ten points each.
\par [10] Prince Prospero is pursues the title figure through 7 colored rooms in this work.
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Masque of Red Death}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par [10] The title character of this work has a fiddle and kills a man in the title structure.
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Devil in The Belfry}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par [10] Minister D\endash   blackmails the Queen by swapping document with a document of no importance in this work that features Dupin.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3741253 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 ANSWER: The }{
\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 Purloined Letter}{\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid880587 {\f0\fs20\insrsid3741253\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15675695 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 14. " Do not act as if you live for a thousand years. While in power, be good." For ten points each,
\par [10] That quote is from this work that was written in Pannonia.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Meditations}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Ta eis heauton}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 
\par [10] The author of }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Meditations,}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  was Marcus Aurelius, an emperor who embraced this philosophy that rallied against strong emotions.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Stoic}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 ism
\par [10] Another Roman stoic was this one who wrote }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 On the Shortness of Life}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 , }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 On Clemency}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 , and }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 The Pumpkinification of the Divine Claudius}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 , during the Silver age of Latin Literature.
\par ANSWER: Lucius Annaeus }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Seneca}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  accept }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Seneca}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  the Younger
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid880587 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15675695 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 15. Consider a closed circuit across which 2 amps are flowing, with 12 volts.  For ten points each:

\par [10]This question can be answered because of this law, which defines the relationship between current, voltage, and resistance for many circuits.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Ohm\rquote s}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  law
\par [10]How much resistance in ohms is on this circuit?  As a reminder, it has 12 volts and 2 amps of current.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Six}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 
\par [10]Some materials do not obey Ohm\rquote s law.  One example is a fluid that can conduct electricity, known by this name.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Electrolyte}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  (or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Electrolytic}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  solution)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid880587 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 
\par 16. }{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 Examples of these types of religions include Druze, and the cult of Sabazius, for ten points each,
\par [10] This term refers to religions made from preexisting ones to settle discrepancies among them.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 syncretic}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370  religion }{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 syncretism}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370  (accept word forms)
\par [10] This syncretic religion based in Iran has shrines in Haifa. It worships Buddha, Jesus and Mohammed among others.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid5337403\charrsid2762370 Baha\rquote i}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
\par [10] This god of light and the namesake of some Roman mystery cults may have been syncretic.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 Mithras}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 17. }{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 This author wrote about Paul Bannerman and thyroid cancer in }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 Get a Life}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
 and Rosa in }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 Burgher's Daughter. }{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 For ten points each,
\par [10] Identify this female author of }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 Beethoven was 1/16th Black}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 .
\par ANSWER: Nadine }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 Gordimer}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
\par [10] Nadine Gordimer was of this country, whose other authors include Alan Paton.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 South Africa}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
\par [10] Gordimer also wrote this novel about the title character rescuing the Smales during a South African civil war.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 July's People
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15675695 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 18. Name these wind instruments for ten points each.
\par [10] This aerophone is found in native Australia. Clapstacks are often accompanied with them.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 didgeridoo}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 
\par [10] Amilcare Ponchielli composed the first concerto for this musical instrument whose precursor is the ophicleide}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 . }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 
This instrument is so named because of its fine music.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 euphonium}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 
\par [10] This instrument produces bass and treble sounds referred to as }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 tekiah }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 and }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 teruah}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 . The Western Wall is a place where the Ottomans }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5337403\charrsid2762370 forbade}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  anyone from playing this instrument.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 shofar}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx3720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid880587 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15675695 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 19. When the torque of a rotating object is zero, this quantity is conserved. for ten points each:
\par [10] Name this quantity equal to the cross product of the position vector and linear momentum of an object.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Angular}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 momentum}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 [10] Angular momentum is considered to be one of these quantities because a cross product has been taken from two vectors. Therefore when undergoing an improper rotation, they will get another sign flip.
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx1890\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15675695 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Pseudovector}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370  (do not prompt on \'93vector\'94)
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15675695 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 
[10] The scalar variety of angular momentum is the angular variety of this quantity. The angular form is symbolized omega and is measured in radians per a second.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 Frequency
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx3720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid880587 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15675695\charrsid2762370 
\par 20. }{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 Search algorithms can be designed to search multiple entities and different structures for storage. for ten points each,
\par [10] The Boyer-Moore and Knuth-Morris-Pratt algorithm skips over characters it rules out when searching for these entities. 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 Strings
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 [10] Djikstra\rquote s algorithm searches for a shortest path between vertices on these data }{\f0\fs20\insrsid5337403\charrsid2762370 structures}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 .
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 Graphs}{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370  (prompt on trees)
\par [10] This divide and conquer algorithm searches a sorted list\rquote s median value, and compares it to the value being searched for and eliminates half of the remaining field.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2762370 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 ANSWER: }{
\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 Binary}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 search}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid880587\charrsid2762370 algorithm}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid687125\charrsid2762370 
\par }}