{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff36\stshfdbch0\stshfloch36\stshfhich36\stshfbi36\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f36\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}{\f246\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f247\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f249\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f250\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f251\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f252\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f253\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f254\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f606\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri CE;}{\f607\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Cyr;}{\f609\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Greek;}{\f610\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Tur;}
{\f613\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 \styrsid15739956 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid15739956 Normal (Web);}{
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 \slink17 \ssemihidden \styrsid15739956 Body Text;}{\*\cs17 \additive \f0\fs24 
\sbasedon10 \slink16 \slocked \ssemihidden \styrsid15739956 Body Text Char;}{\*\cs18 \additive \i \sbasedon10 \styrsid10752424 Emphasis;}}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0{\lsdlockedexcept Normal;heading 1;heading 2;heading 3;heading 4;heading 5;heading 6;heading 7;heading 8;heading 9;toc 1;toc 2;toc 3;toc 4;toc 5;toc 6;toc 7;toc 8;toc 9;caption;Title;Default Paragraph Font;Body Text;Subtitle;Strong;Emphasis;Table Grid;}}
{\*\rsidtbl \rsid17551\rsid1445584\rsid2111043\rsid2830193\rsid3698825\rsid4269236\rsid5311150\rsid5785416\rsid8680888\rsid9440155\rsid9703946\rsid9905999\rsid10752424\rsid11671414\rsid14035501\rsid15739956\rsid16388024}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.
0.5604;}{\info{\author helpdesk}{\operator Ike}{\creatim\yr2009\mo1\dy23\hr21\min51}{\revtim\yr2009\mo2\dy1\hr23\min49}{\version5}{\edmins63}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords3368}{\nofchars19203}{\*\company Hewlett-Packard}{\nofcharsws22526}{\vern24689}}
\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1440\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct
\asianbrkrule\rsidroot9905999\newtblstyruls\nogrowautofit \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid5785416\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 Toss-Ups
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 
\par 1.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Enzymes from this organ are released via cholecystokinin. The hormone ghrelin is produced in this organ via the epsilon cells, while the delta }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 
cells of it produce}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  the regulator somatostatin. Johann}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  Wirsung is the namesake of 
this organ's duct that links it to the one of the common bile. It is also home to the islets of Langerhans. For ten points, name this organ that produces amylin along with insulin.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 pancreas}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9703946 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 2.  
This man paid George Benninsky to take his place in the conscription act and defended }{\b\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 Commercial Advertiser}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 
 from libel. He worked with William Whitney to modernize the navy and his Secretary of State talked with Joseph Chamberlain for fishing rights. He withdrew the U.S. from the Berlin}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 
 Conference. He had to deal with Coxey's Army marching on to Washington, and he got an injunction against the rioters of the Pullman Strike. For ten points, name this President that served two non-consecutive terms.
\par ANSWER: Grover }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 Cleveland
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 3.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 One version of this poem ends with the lines \'93What powerful but unrecorded race / once dwelt in that annihilated place\'94
 was written by Horace Smith.  Another poem of the same name uses the images of \'93The Hand that Mock\rquote d them and the heart that fed.\'94}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  It also features \'93wrinkled lip and sneer of cold command\'94
 and \'93The lone and level sands stretch far away." \'93Look Upon my works ye mighty and despair!\'94  is another line in, for ten points, what Shelley poem about \'93king of kings\'94 whose statue and splendor has been washed away?
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9703946 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Ozymandias
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 {\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 4.  The Vicomte de Turenne worked under this ruler who be
sieged the city of Charleroi, and fought against William III of Orange in the 9 Years War, which ended with the Treaty of Ryswick. }{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
He also fought in the War of Devolution, squared off against the League of Augsburg and with}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
 Philip V he signed the Treaty of Utrecht. His advisor was Cardinal Mazzarin and he was the son of the constructor of the Palace of Versailles. For ten points, name this husband of Maria Theresa, a French king associated with the god Helios.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Louis XIV}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Louis the Sun King}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9703946 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 5.  Lesser known works of this man include the Mandrake, the Golden Ass, and the History of Florence. }{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 His Discourses of Livy}{\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024  features on
e of the first uses of the checks and balances concept and emphasized the strength of a tripartite structure and superiority of a republic over principality. Famous for his realist ideals, for ten points, identify this author of the Prince.
\par Answer: Niccolo }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 Machiavelli}{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 6.  }{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 In mythology, it was said that this constellation was sent to distract Hercules during his quest to defeat the hydra. Although this constellation grabbed Hercules\rquote  toe}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 , Hercules simply crushed him with his foot. As a result, Hera p
laced it in the night sky. This constellation is also has one of the nearest open clusters Praesepe or the Beehive Cluster. As of 2002, the sun appears in this constellation from July 21 to August 9.Representing the zodiac from June 24 to July 23, }{
\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 for}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  ten points, identify this constellation whose name means Crab.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Cancer
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 7.  }{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 He is unsuccessful in refusing Heck Tate\rquote s bid to get his son off from a potential crime, and is known throughout his community as a deadly shot.\~
 He is also a noted checker player, and forced his son to read }{\b\i\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Ivanhoe}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  to Mrs. Dubose.\~
 A fifty-year-old widower and state representative, he disagrees with his sister}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  Alexandria\rquote s opinions on the raising of his daughter, and he has Calpurnia raise his chi
ldren. For ten points, name this Maycomb, Alabama attorney, who is appointed to defend Tom Robinson, father of Scout and Jem in Harper Lee\rquote s }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 To Kill a Mockingbird}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 .
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Atticus}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  Finch\~
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 8.  }{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
This man passed a law forcing the government to provide public access television and names a bill with an Alabama Senator that reorganized the U.S. military. This man did not censure Joseph McCarthy and promoted his anti-communism in }{
\b\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 The Conscience of a}{\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  Conservative}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
. He also recommended that the U.S. should use nuclear weapons against China, which may have cost him his Presidential campaign against Lyndon Johnson. For ten points, John McCain replaced what Arizonan in the Senate?
\par ANSWER: Barry }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Goldwater}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9703946 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 
\par 9.  The LB and SB variety of these compounds are used in electrophoresis. MOPS and TRIS are two useful ones. }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 Norman Good proposed 12 chemicals of this sort and he 
selected criteria for them, such as membrane impermeability and an acid dissociation constant}{\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024  near 7. }{\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 
Their pH is most simply found by using the Henderson-Hasselbach equation and they consist of a weak acid and their conjugate base, or vice versa. For ten points, name this type solution that resists changes in pH.\rquote 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9703946 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 buffer}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 s}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 {\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 10.  }{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 This stude
nt of Fronto had a sibling that led troops that burnt Ctesiphon when fighting against the Parthian Empire. This wager of war against the Marcomanni at the Danube had a wife}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
 Faustina, saw the Costobocci invade Attica, and he was declared dead leading Avidiu
s Cassius to rebel against him. The end of Pax Romana came after this brother of Lucius Verus died and his son, Commodus took control. For ten points, name this last of the Five Good Emperors.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Marcus Aurelius}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Antoninus Augustus
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9703946 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 11.  The Wulff cons
truction is a theory designed to show the shape of crystals by minimizing this quantity. Surface tension is defined as this quantity divided by surface area. At melting points, this quantity that is directly proportional to fugacity is}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024  zero. Whenever this 
value is negative, then reactions associated with this quantity are spontaneous. For ten points, name this quantity, enthalpy minus the product of entropy and temperature, named for an American Scientist.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 Gibbs Free Energy}{\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 12.  }{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
One of its arms was the Blue Shirt Society. One of its tenets was derived from Henry George, while another was freedom from imperial domination called }{\b\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Minzu}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 , both of which are part of }{\b\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Three Principles of the People}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
. It grew out of the Consitutional Protection Movement when it clashed with the}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  Beiyang Government, and }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 its}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  leader was arrested during the Xian incident. With rulers like Sun Yat Sen and Chiang Kai Shek, for ten points, name this party of China, sometimes called the KuoMinTang.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 National}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 ist Party or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 K}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 uo}{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 M}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 in}{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 T}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 ang early
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 13.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 This is the final destination of }{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 Typhus}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
 and the hecatoncheires stayed at its bronze gates.  Later, it included figures like Tityos, Otus and Ephalties, and the Lapiths.  Rhadymanthus assigns who stays and who goes here, along with his brother Minos.}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
  Surrounded by a wall of bronze, it was where the Titans went after Zeus defeated them.  Hesiod wrote that an anvil falling from earth would take seven days to land in, for ten points, what opposite }{\f0\fs20\insrsid2111043\charrsid16388024 of Elysium}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 , the lowest region of the world and a place of punishment for sinners in Greek myth?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Tartarus}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 14.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
At the left corner of this painting is a partial stand that appears to be A shaped. On the right side, eight works of art can be seen, while on the back a work based on Ovid by Rubens is visible. An anecdote claims that the order of Santia
go was added to this painting to the figure in}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
 black. The title figures are dressed in white, while Mariana and her chamberlain appear in a mirror and a doorway. Perhaps most notable are the mastiff, and two dwarfs. For ten points, name this painting commi
ssioned by Philip the IV, a work of Diego Velazquez.
\par ANSEWR: Las}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Meninas}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9703946 {\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 
\par 15.  This ruler fought against Stefan Bathory after he invaded Courland and that conflict ended with the Treaty of Jam Zapolski. In addition to fighting the Livonian War, he annexed Astrakhan onto his empire and named}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024  Simoen Bekbulatovich czar for two years. He slaughtered some people at Novgorod, formed the }{\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 oprichna}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024  and killed his son after he might have caused his wife\rquote s miscarriage. For ten points, name this father of Fyodor who built St. Basil\rquote s Cathedral, a czar named for his cruelty.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 Ivan the Terrible}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 Ivan the IV}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 Ivan Grozny}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 
\par 16.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 As founder of the Lake Placid Club, he campaigned for the 1932 Olympics t
o be held there; he also founded the Adirondack music clove. As a staunch advocate of the metric system, he founded the American Metric Bureau; he also tried to create an American spelling by dropping}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
 ue off of many words, like catalog. However this creator of }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 New Ross Standard}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
 and the Columbia School for Library Economy is mainly renowned for a system that places subjects like epistemology and paranormal studies in 100, and Asia and Europe in 900. }{\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 For ten points
, name this librarian who created a method of classifying books.}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par Answer: Melvil}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Dewey
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 17.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
One river in this state is named because of its Jerusalem artichokes, while another river is the La Seuer, which is itself a tributary of the Blue Earth River. Southwest of the Northwest Angle, is the U.S. exc
lave of Elm Point. It also features the High Falls of Tettegouche and Lake Itasca. Its Lakes of the Woods County is the northernmost point of the continental}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  U.S. Its cities include Maple Grove, Minnetonka}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 , Plymouth}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  and Rochester. For ten points, name this state that borders the Dakotas and Wisconsin that features twin cities of Saint Paul and Minneapolis.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Minnesota
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9703946 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 18.  
Inflecting the word for to row, remi, as remos makes the word future tense in this language. Similarly, revolando, meaning dreamland, is made plural by adding a j.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 It\rquote s}{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024  not Jewish or Polish, but people who spoke it }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 during}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024  the Holocaust would be executed, because}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024  Hitler believed it would be used for the International Jewish Conspiracy. }{\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 Similar in origin to novial and I
nterlingua, it is genealogically related to no other language, and it has no grammatical exceptions, as the way Ludwig Zamenhoff, wanted it to be. }{\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 
A word meaning "he that hopes" is the etymology of, for ten points, what constructed language?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 Esperanto
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 
\par 19.  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 One game with this noun in its title sees Rumble and Tumble being employed by the Dream Queen. Another game with this noun in its t
itle features the malice rating, which when full sees the Grim Reaper fight the Harmonixer Yuri. Another game sees Toroah the Messiah as a historical figure in a game where you can control Grog Drinkwater}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
 and Ash Lambert, while a fourth game with this body part in its title ends at \'93The World that Never Was\'94 and begins at \'93Twilight Town.\'94 For ten points, what noun titles a kingdom wherein a player plays as Sora?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 heart}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 s (accept }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Dual Hearts}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  }{
\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Shadow Hearts}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Vandal Hearts}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  }{
\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Kingdom Hearts}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 )
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20\insrsid14035501\charrsid16388024 20.  The leaders of a particular }{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 village}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid14035501\charrsid16388024  in this novel will be hanged unless 250 bags of cowries are produced.  This novel\rquote 
s main character is the son of a flute player, and he starves himself for two days straight after his mother Ikemefuna dies}{\f0\fs20\insrsid14035501\charrsid16388024 .  He raises yams, which he refers to the king of crops.  The novel also describes how
 two }{\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 children}{\f0\fs20\insrsid14035501\charrsid16388024  from the village are taken into the Evil Forest.  Partially set in Umofia, Amalizne the Cat is used to prove Okonkwo\rquote 
s strength in this novel.  For ten points, name this Chinua Achebe novel}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid14035501\charrsid16388024 .  }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid14035501\charrsid16388024 Answer: }{\b\i\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid14035501\charrsid16388024 Things Fall Apart}{\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Boni}{\f0\fs20\insrsid9703946\charrsid16388024 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 1.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
Name these restaurants, for ten points each.
\par [10] This restaurant chain was recently purchased by IHOP and features its namesake Neighborhood Grill and Bar. 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Applebees}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par [10] It doesn\rquote t serve cancer, but this restaurant is known for its \'93Big and Tasty,\'94 and Filet-O-Fish in addition to chicken nuggets made out of eggs.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 McDonalds}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par [10] A restaurant in Seattle is located inside this structure is known as the SkyCity Restaurant. You can see Mount Rainier from here.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Space Needle}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 2.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Identify these Mexican States, for ten points each.
\par [10] This state that borders Sonora to its east is the largest Mexican State and is home to Copper Canyon and the cities of Ciudad Juarez and Madera.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Chihuahua}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par [10] With a capital at Chetumal, this state contains the towns of Playa del Carmen, Pueto Juarez, }{\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 and Akumal}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  and is home to Cozumel and Cancun.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Quintana Roo}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par [10] Guadelupe Island is found in this state whose population is found in mainly two cities: Tijuana and Mexicali. 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Baja California}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid17551 {\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 3.  Answer the following about BEEEEEEEEEEEES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! For ten points each.
\par [10] This is the phenomenon in which the drones of a hive suddenly disappear. The University of Landau attributed this phenomenon to cellular phones.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Colony collapse disorder}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024  (prompt on CCD)
\par [10] Karl Von Frisch observed this phenomenon in which a figure 8 dance is executed to point other drones toward the direction of essential biomaterials for survival.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Waggle}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 dance}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 [10] This resin is used to seal minute spaces in a hive and is supposedly a part of the varnish Stradivarius developed for his }{\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 violins}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 . For larger spaces in a hive }{\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 beeswax}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024  is used.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Propolis}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 4.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Name these types of crime, for ten points each.
\par [10] While a death occurring during the course of a felony is automatically murder, a death occurring during the course of a misdemeanor is classified as this. It comes in voluntary and involuntary varieties.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 manslaughter
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 [10] This is the generic term for theft. If the goods stolen total over a certain amount, it is known as the "grand}{\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 \'94 variety}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  of this crime.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 larceny}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par [10] This is the term for a mutilation of a body part, or the crippling of a human being. Many states charge this crime as aggravated assault.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 mayhem}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 5.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 The Albigensian Crusade dealt with removing the one of the Cathars. For ten points each,
\par [10] Give this general term for a faction of a religion where a tenet is different from the accepted.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Heresy}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  (accept equivalents, and other forms)
\par [10] Including a young St. Augustine, this heresy asserted good and evil were equally powerful.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Manichaen}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 ism
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 [10] This heresy holds that Jesus was 2 separate entities: a man, and a son of god, rather than 1 corporeal entity.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Nestorian}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 ism}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid17551 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par 6.  Robert Bunsen discovered two elements and named one of them for the Latin word for \'93sky blue.\'94 for ten points each:
\par [10] Name that element, noted for its use in atomic clocks.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Cesium}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par [10] Cesium is just above francium, which indicates it has a very low value for this property, the ability to draw in electrons toward the nucleus. On the Pauling scale, it is .7
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 electronegativity
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 [10] The Goiania accident involved a case of cesium fluoride that possibly exhibited this phenomenon in which a charged through an insulator faster than the speed of light in that insulator.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Cerenkov}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024  Radiation}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
Cherenkov}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Radiation
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 7.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
Answer these questions about African-American History in the 1960\rquote s, FTPE:
\par [10] Carl Stokes was elected mayor of what American city? He was the first African-American mayor of a large city.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Cleveland}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 , Ohio
\par [5}{\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 , 5}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 ] Marches occurred from this city to this city, both of which are in Alabama. It was fronted by Amelia Boynton, Hosea Williams and James Bevel.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Selma
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Montgomery}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par [10] Lee Minikus arresting Marquette Frye, William Parker calling African American\rquote s monkeys in the zoo, and Jerold Bova shooting and killing Leonard Deadwyler all helped exacerbate or initiate riots in this city.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 L}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 os }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 A}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 ngeles, California}{
\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid17551 {\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 8.  Name these artists who worked in the Vatican for ten points each.
\par [10] This guy designed the Medici Chapel, worked on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel and painted }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 The Last Judgment}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 .
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Michaelangelo}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024  Buonarotti
\par [10] His fresco }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 The School of Athens}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024  is still in the Stanza della Signatura.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Raphael}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par [10] He was commissioned by Julius II to design Saint Peter\rquote s, but his Greek cross design was modified by his successors.
\par ANSWER: Donato }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Bramante}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 9.  Four}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  of this author's plays are set aboard the ship Glencairn. For ten points each:
\par [10] Name this creator of Anna Christie, and The Emperor Jones.
\par ANSWER: Eugene Gladstone }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 O\rquote Neill}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par [10] This play won O\rquote Neill a posthumous Pulitzer }{\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 Prize}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 . It chronicles a descent into evening around the Tyrone family.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Long Day\rquote s Journey Into Night}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par [10] This play sees Jim Tyrone threatening to evict Hogan. Like Jamie Tyrone, he is based off of Eugene O\rquote Neill\rquote s brother.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 ANSWER: A }{
\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Moon For The Misbegotten}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid17551 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 10.  
Answer these questions about a particular football team, for ten points each.
\par [10] This soccer team features Wayne Rooney and featured David Beckham before he left for Real Madrid.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Man}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 chester }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 U}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 nited
\par [10] This soccer stadium in Manchester is the home of ManU.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Old Trafford}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par [10] This man, the manager of Manchester United, has managed Scotland\rquote s football team and Aberdeen\rquote s before managing ManU.
\par ANSWER: Alexander }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Ferguson}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 {\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par 11.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Identify these mathematicians integral in developing differential calculus, for ten points each.
\par [10] This Frenchman solved the brachistochrone curve problem purchased a theorem that discusses how to find limits for indeterminate forms.
\par ANSWER: Guillaume Fran\'e7ois Antoine, Marquis de}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 l'H\'f4pital
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 [10] His namesake theorem is a special case of the mean value theorem; the only difference is that the endpoints are equal, thereby making the slope zero.
\par ANSWER: Michel}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Rolle
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
[10] A method named for this man and Raphson seeks to find roots of functions by using the expression x sub n \endash  f of x sub n divided by the derivative of x sub n. He is credited with founding differential calculus.
\par ANSWER: Isaac}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Newton}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 \tab }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid11671414\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid17551 {\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 12.  Identify these people associated with the American labor movement for ten points each.
\par [10]He organized the American Railway Union and was one of the leaders of the Pullman strike in 1894}{\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 , before}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024  running for President as a Socialist five times.
\par Answer: Eugene Victor }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Debs}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par [10]This former cigarmaker was the first president of the American Federation of Labor.
\par Answer: Samuel }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Gompers}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par [10]This President of the Service Employees International Union was instrumental in the founding of Change to Win in 2005.
\par Answer: Andrew L. \'93Andy\'94 }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Stern}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 \f36\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 13.  }{
\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 It is the ratio of the speed of light in a vacuum to a speed of light in a vacuum.
\par [10] For ten points, name this quantity symbolized n sub 1 and n sub 2 in Snell\rquote s Law.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Index of refraction}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 refractive index}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par [5,5] For five points each, Snell\rquote s law says that the sine of these two angles, must be equal to each other when they are multiplied by their respective index of refractions.
\par ANSWER: Angle of}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 incidence
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 ANSWER: Angle of}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 reflection}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par [10] For ten points, total internal reflection occurs when the ratio of the second refractive index to the first is greater }{\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 than}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  the sine of what value?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Critical}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 angle}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 14.  }{
\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 In it, Marlow and George Hastings wind up at the Three Pigeons Bar. For ten points each,
\par [10] Name this comedy of manners whose other characters include Constance Neville, Tony Lumpkin, and Kate Hardcastle
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 She Stoops to Conquer}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par [10] Dr. Primrose Deborah, their six children and their troubles are the subject of this novel by the same author.
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Vicar of Wakefield}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par [10] This author wrote }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 She Stoops to Conquer, The Vicar of Wakefield}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  and }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 The Deserted Village}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 .
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 ANSWER: Oliver }{
\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Goldsmith}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 {\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 15.  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
Nathaniel Rich and Lord Grey helped this man remove Parliamentarians from the building that supported Charles I after England had a civil war. For ten points each,
\par [10] Name this man who gave his name to a purge.
\par ANSWER: Thomas}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Pride}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par [10] The modified parliament was w given this name which brought Charles I from Wight to England to be executed.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Rump}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Parliament}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 [10] The Rump Parliament\rquote 
s military might rested in this army that defeated the Scottish at Preston, was involved in the Corkbush Field Rendezvous, tried to invade Ireland at Lisnagarvey, squared off against Scottish Covenanters, and participated in the Bishopgate and Banbury mut
iny.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 New Model}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Army}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid17551 {\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 16.  Name these church councils for ten points each.
\par [10]This most recent ecumenical council, started by Pope John 23, reformed Church liturgy and practice including using the vernacular at Mass.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Vatican II}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par [10]The first Church council, its decision to permit Gentile converts to Christianity to not be circumcised is recorded in Acts.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Jerusalem}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par [10]Called in 325 to combat Arianism, it resulted in a famous creed.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Nicaea I}{\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid17551 {\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 {\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 17.  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 This man composed "Roarotorio,
 An Irish Circus on Finnegan's Wake," and is known for his aleatoric music. For ten }{\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 points}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  each,
\par [10] Name this composer of }{\i\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 As Slow as Possible}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 , a work that will take the Sankt-Burchardi Church 639 years to completely perform.
\par ANSWER: John Milton}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Cage}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Jr}{
\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 .
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 [10] John Cage composed this series of composition that calls for a radio tuned to different frequencies so there is a different result }{\f0\fs20\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 every time}{
\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  in its fourth part. Its first part calls for the use of phonographs with amplifiers.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Imaginary Landscapes}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par [10] He also composed Music for the Works for this man; to get some high quality pitches, John Cage stayed and this man's studio and recorded mobiles rustling against each other.
\par ANSWER: Alexander "Sandy"}{\b\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Calder}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15739956 \f36\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 18.  }{
\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Answer the following about chaos, for ten points each.
\par [10] In PHYSICS! This term describes the sensitive dependence on initial conditions in chaos theory.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Butterfly Effect}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par [10] This stochastic process can be modeled by a random walk and is notably observed by dust particles in the air.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 Brownian Motion
\par }{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 [10] Chaos game is the term used for generating these objects that might include the Sierpinsky Carpet and Mengy Sponge, the latter of which is a sponge that has a volume of 0. 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 fractal}{\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 s
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20\insrsid15739956\charrsid16388024 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid17551 {\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 19.  This ruling house ruled over Prussia and Romania at various points throughout history. For ten points each,
\par [10] Identify this house, whose members included margraves of Bayreuth and Brandenburg and burgrave of Nuremberg.  
\par ANSWER: House}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 of}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Hohenzollern}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024  (accept }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Hohenzollern}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Dynasty}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 )
\par }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 [10] This Hohenzollern monarch conquered Silesia and entered Saxony to spark the 7 years war. He also tried to annoy Austria by entering the War of the Bavarian Succession.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Frederick II}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 of}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024  }{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Prussia (accept }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Frederick IV of Brandenburg}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 , }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
do not accept on }{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Frederick IV }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 by}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024  }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 itself}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 , }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 accept}{\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Frederick the Great}{
\b\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 )
\par }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 [10] Frederick II also participated in this war while under Prince Eugene of Savoy. It saw Adam Tarlo lead the Confederation of Dzikow and was ended with the Treaty of Vienna.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10752424 {\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 ANSWER: War of }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 Polish Succession}{
\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid17551\charrsid16388024 
\par }{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 
\par 20.  One of this author\rquote s novels is partially set in Morbio Inferiore.  For ten points each:
\par [10]Identify this author of Journey to the East that wrote about Joseph Knecht in }{\i\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 Magister Ludi}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 .
\par Answer: Herman }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 Hesse}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 
\par [10]Vasuedva, who was enlightened while listening to a river, meets the title character of this Hesse novel.
\par Answer: }{\b\i\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 Siddartha}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 
\par [10]This Hesse work features organist Pistorius and bully Franz Kromer.  It details Emil Sinclair\rquote s youth.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul\kerning28\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 Demian}{\f0\fs20\kerning28\insrsid10752424\charrsid16388024 
\par }}