{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f16\froman\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times-BoldItalic;}
{\f17\froman\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times-Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ri-720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext15 
Body Text;}{\s16\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text 2;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f17 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Body Text 3;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-1152978766\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0
\levelstartat15\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\b\fbias0 \fi-420\li420\jclisttab\tx420 }{\listname ;}\listid1159930300}{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelold\levelspace0\levelindent360{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li360 }{\listname ;}\listid1959796181}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1959796181\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid1159930300\listoverridecount0\ls2
}}{\info{\title Game 5}{\author SuzmanR}{\operator SuzmanR}{\creatim\yr1998\mo12\dy18\hr12\min29}{\revtim\yr1998\mo12\dy22\hr17\min39}{\version4}{\edmins14}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords1894}{\nofchars10798}{\*\company SuzmanR}{\nofcharsws13260}{\vern71}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0{\*\docvar {VTBOLDON}{0}}{\*\docvar {VTCASE}{4}}{\*\docvar {VTCommandPending}{NONE}}{\*\docvar {VTCurMacroFlags$}{NNNN}}{\*\docvar {VTINIT}{1}}
{\*\docvar {VTITALICON}{0}}{\*\docvar {VTUNDERLINEON}{0}}{\*\docvar {VTypeCAPFlag$}{TRUE}}{\*\docvar {VTypeJoinDigitFlag$}{FALSE}}{\*\docvar {VTypeLCFlag$}{FALSE}}{\*\docvar {VTypeNoSpaceFlag$}{TRUE}}{\*\docvar {VTypeSpaceFlag$}{FALSE}}
{\*\docvar {VTypeUCFlag$}{FALSE}}\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {Game 5
\par 
\par 1. This classical economist followed in the individualist tradition of Adam Smith and stressed economic individualism, laissez-faire, obedience to natural law, free competition, and free trade. His arguments that there are natural limits on mankind
\rquote s progress had a strong effect on Charles Darwin, helping him to formulate his theory of natural selection. For ten points, name this man who wrote \ldblquote Essay on Population\rdblquote  in 1798.
\par \tab Thomas }{\b Malthus
\par 
\par }{Bonus:  Lee Iacocca was America's best known Chief Executive Officer.  Some of his peers at larger and more important companies are less well known.  Identify the companies led by the following men for five points each and five for all correct.
\par Sumner Redstone \tab \tab \tab }{\b VIACOM}{
\par Alex Trotman \tab \tab \tab \tab }{\b FORD }{MOTOR CO.
\par Jim Barksdale\tab \tab \tab \tab }{\b NETSCAPE}{
\par Michael Eisner\tab \tab \tab }{\b DISNEY}{
\par Jack Welch\tab \tab \tab \tab }{\b GE }{or}{\b  GENERAL ELECTRIC
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b 2. }{This composer tended to have good working relationships with his peers, writing his first three symphonies under the influence of Johann Christian Bach and dedicating his first 
six string quartets to Joseph Haydn. He did not have a good relationship with one fellow composer but it is unlikely that he was actually poisoned by him; rather it is believed that he died of a heart weakened by rheumatic fever. For ten points, name this
 Austrian composer whose operatic works include Cosi fan Tutti, Don Giovanni, and The Marriage of Figaro.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\b Wolfgang Amadeus}{ MOZART
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\ri-1800\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f16\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {Bonus:  Answer the following about the movie \ldblquote Amadeus\rdblquote  for ten points each.
\par Who wrote the play on which the movie is based?\tab Peter }{\b Shaffer
\par }{Who won an Academy Award as Best Director for "Amadeus" (he also won for "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest")?\tab \tab Milos }{\b Forman
\par }\pard \qj\ri-1800\nowidctlpar\adjustright {In the play and movie, what jealous rival composer supposedly poisons Mozart?\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Antonio }{\b Salieri}{\f16\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj\ri-1800\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b 3. }{His story has
 inspired great works of music by Berlioz, Gounod, Liszt, and Schumann as well as great works of literature by Mann, Marlowe, and Goethe (GER-te).  For ten points, name this man who sells his soul to Mephistopheles.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\b FAUST
\par 
\par }{BONUS: Given a character or characters from a Tennessee William\rquote s play, name the play for ten points each.
\par Wingfield family\tab \tab \tab }{\b The Glass Menagerie}{
\par Blanche Dubois\tab \tab \tab }{\b A Streetcar Named Desire
\par }{Maggie Pollitt\tab \tab \tab \tab }{\b Cat on a Hot Tin Roof
\par 
\par 4. }{This folksinger's influence on American music is demonstr
ated by the fact that Bob Dylan visited his sickbed upon hearing a rumor of him being terminally ill.  For ten points, name this artist who based much of his work on the plight of migrants in the 1930's, famous for "This Land Is Your Land".
\par Woody}{\b  GUTHRIE
\par 
\par }{BONUS: Are you tired of hearing bonuses to which David Lee Roth is all too frequently the answer?  Well, here\rquote s a bonus about some of Josh\rquote s favorite music.  Ten points each.
\par Fake Plastic Trees, High and Dry, Airbag, and Karma Police are among this band\rquote s better-known songs.
\par \tab }{\b Radiohead
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ri-720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {Generally known as the kings of indie rock, this band\rquote s first major album, }{\i Slanted and Enchanted}{, was Spin magazine\rquote s number one album of the year in 1992. More recent albums include }
{\i Brighten the Corners}{, and }{\i Wowee Zowie.}{
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\tab }{\b Pavement}{
\par Her first major album, }{\i Exile in Guyville}{, landed her on the cover of Rolling Stone. Her two subsequent albums were }{\i Whipsmart}{ and the recently released }{\i Whitechocolatespaceegg (WHITE-CHOCOLATE-SPACE-EGG)}{.
\par \tab }{\b Liz Phair
\par 
\par 5.}{  Her mother was Thetis, the goddess of prudence, and her father was Zeus, the
\par king of the gods. She was born inside her father\rquote s head and sprouted out in
\par full armor when Hephaestus cracked Zeus\rquote s skull open. For 10 points, name the
\par goddess of wisdom.
\par \tab Pallas }{\b Athena}{ or }{\b Minerva}{
\par 
\par Bonus: For 5 points each, given the special domain of the Greek or Roman god, name the god.
\par \tab 1. The ocean
\par \tab }{\b Poseidon}{ or }{\b Neptune}{
\par \tab 2. The fields
\par \tab }{\b Demeter}{ or }{\b Ceres}{
\par \tab 3. War
\par \tab }{\b Ares}{ or }{\b Mars}{
\par \tab 4. The Underworld
\par \tab }{\b Hades}{ or }{\b Pluto}{
\par \tab 5. Love
\par \tab }{\b Aphrodite}{ or }{\b Venus}{
\par \tab 6. Thunder
\par \tab }{\b Zeus}{ or }{\b Jupiter}{
\par }{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {6.  This spice is almost always used in curry, but as one of the primary ingredients in American-syle prepared mustard it\rquote 
s what gives it its bright yellow color.  For ten points, what is this yellow orange root of a tropical plant related to ginger?
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b {\cgrid  TURMERIC
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\b 
\par }\pard \qj\ri-1800\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cgrid0 Name this star after one clue for 30 points, after two for 20 or after three for 10:
\par 1. Its Greek name means "guardian of the bear," and it orbits the Milky Way perpendicular to the rest of the  
\par     galaxy. 
\par 2. The handle of the Big Dipper points to this brightest star in Bootes (boh-OH-teez).
\par 3. In northern hemisphere skies, it is second only to Sirius (SEER-ee-us) in brightness. 
\par }{\b\cgrid0 ARCTURUS }{\cgrid0 (ark-TOOR-us)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\i\cgrid0 PROMPT: If ALPHA BOOTIS or ALPHA BOOTES is answered}{\b 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\ri-1800\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\b 7. }{Although B.F. Skinner used the title for his own work, this book has little to do with the field of behaviorism.  Rather, it is a celebration of nature covering two years of the author\rquote 
s life spent at a pond in Massachusetts and is about the individual\rquote s ability to live apart from society.  For ten points, what is this work by Henry David Thoreau?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\b\i  }{\b WALDEN
\par 
\par }{Bonus:  This bonus will test your knowledge of the poet-laureates of England.  For 10 points each, given the years he held the post, identify the poet; if a work is needed, you'll only get 5.
\par 10: 1930-1967       5: "Sea Fever"\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par JOHN}{\b  MASEFIELD
\par }{10: 1850-1892\tab       5: }{\i Charge of the Light Brigade}{\b\i  
\par }{ALFRED, LORD}{\b  TENNYSON
\par }{10: 1668-1688       5: }{\i MacFlecknoe and Absalom and Achitopel \tab \tab 
\par }{JOHN}{\b  DRYDEN
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {8. }{\cgrid0 A bright Washington summer day turned tragic this past July when, for ten points,  this man burst through a Capital entrance, shot one officer, ran down the hall, entered a congressman\rquote 
s office and killed another officer before collapsing due to multiple gunshot wounds.\tab \tab Russel \ldblquote Rusty\rdblquote  }{\b\cgrid0 Weston}{\cgrid0 
\par \tab 
\par Bonus:  For the given number of points, answer the following about the Capital Shooting incident
\par 5: The first officer who challenged Weston when he entered and was promptly shot  
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab J.J. (Jacob)  }{\b\cgrid0 Chestnut}{\cgrid0 
\par 5: The second officer shot, he engaged Weston inside a Congressman\rquote s office      
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab   John }{\b\cgrid0 Gibson}{\cgrid0 
\par 10: The Representative who\rquote s office they were in, the current House Majority Whip\tab 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Tom }{\b\cgrid0 DeLay}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj\ri-1800\nowidctlpar\adjustright {    4. Ten Points: This Senator, using his prior training as a surgeon, performed CPR on Weston until the \tab  \tab  paramedics came.\tab \tab \tab \tab Senator Bill }{\b Frist}{
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ri-720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {9. Pencil and paper ready. For a quick ten points, if a cube has a side of length 4, what is the length of one the cube\rquote s diagonals?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\tab }{\b Square Root of 3
\par 
\par }{BONUS: For ten points each, answer the following math questions
\par What is the third term of the quantity x minus 3y to the fourth?
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\b 54x}{\b\super 2}{\b y}{\b\super 2
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {What are the roots of the equation y = 2x}{\super 2 }{- 3x - 5
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\b 5/2 and -1}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {What is the value of }{\i i}{\super 47}{\i\super 
\par }{\b -}{\b\i i}{
\par }\pard \qj\ri-1800\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {10. }{\cgrid0 For ten years, he worked on an oil and lead wire construction, "The 
\par Large Glass, or the Bride Stripped Bare by her Bachelors, Even," while 
\par simultaneously churning out such "ready-mades" as his 1913 "Bicycle 
\par Wheel."  For ten points, name this pop and op artist and anti-artist, who caused an 
\par uproar with his "Nude Descending a Staircase."
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\ri-1800\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\cgrid0 Marcel }{\b\cgrid0 Duchamp
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {Bonus:  For five points each, five for all correct, name the architect of the following structures:
\par 1.Lakeshore Drive Towers \tab \tab  }{\b\i \tab }{LUDWIG MIES }{\b VAN DER ROHE}{
\par 2.PanAm (now the MetLife) Building \tab WALTER}{\b  GROPIUS}{
\par 3.The Yale Art Gallery\tab \tab  \tab LOUIS I.}{\b  KHAN}{
\par 4.Kauffman House \tab \tab \tab  \tab FRANK LLOYD}{\b  WRIGHT}{
\par }\pard \qj\ri-1800\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {5.Gateway Arch \tab \tab \tab \tab EERO}{\b  SAARINEN}{
\par 
\par 11. His revolt was soon crushed and thirteen slaves and three free blacks were hanged.  He escaped to the woods, but was soon caught and was also hanged.  His i
nsurrection was by far the most serious uprising in the history of slavery in the United States.  For ten points, name this leader of the Southampton Insurrection whose forced confessions were turned into a book by William Styron.
\par Nat}{\b  TURNER}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par BONUS: For ten points each, identify the following Supreme Court decisions given the clue.
\par Case which established the doctrine of \ldblquote clear and present danger.\rdblquote 
\par \tab }{\b Schenk }{v. U.S.}{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b {\b0 Case which established the principle of judicial review.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\tab }{\b Marbury v. Madison
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b {\b0 Case which was the source of \ldblquote You have the right to remain silent\'85\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\tab }{\b Miranda }{v. Arizona
\par 
\par }{\cgrid0 12.   It is screened every Tuesday night at a dinner theatre in New York City.
\par For 10 points, name the 1961 film starring George Prepard and Audrey Hepburn
\par that did not win her best actress honors at the Academy Awards.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b {Breakfast at Tiffiny
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\cgrid0 
\par \tab BONUS: For 10 points each, identify the following facts about Breakfast at
\par Tiffany.
\par 
\par 1. What was Audrey Hepburn's character's name?\tab }{\b\cgrid0 Holly Golightly}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. What is the origin of the item that is engraved at Tiffany and Co.?\tab 
\par A }{\b\cgrid0 Cracker Jack box}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. What is the cat's name?
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b {Cat
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {
\par 
\par 13.
\par 
\par 14. Yiddish may not be his first language, but this former Senator knew one word
\par too many.  He accomplished the difficult task of being defeated after 18 years
\par as an incumbent. For 10 points name this former New York senator defeated in
\par the recent elections by Charles Schumer.
\par Alfonse "Al" }{\b D'AMATO
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 15.\tab}}\pard \fi-420\li420\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx420{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2\pnrnot0\pndec\pnb1\pnstart15\pnindent420\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls2\adjustright {
This boxer, a frequent competitor of Sugar Ray Robinson who handed him his first loss, was briefly the middleweight champion after being suspended for throwing a fight.  For ten points, name this Bronx bull who was played by Robert DeNiro in the film 
\ldblquote Raging Bull\rdblquote  based on his own book.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {Jake }{\b LaMotta}{
\par 
\par Bonus:  Indentify the following boxing related people, ten points each.
\par This boxer was suspended this year for biting off another boxer\rquote s ear
\par Mike }{\b Tyson}{
\par This boxer had his ear bitten off
\par Evander }{\b Holyfield}{
\par This former boxing referee now has his own daytime \ldblquote Judge\rdblquote  show
\par Mills }{\b Lane}{
\par 
\par 16. He wrote, "All men dream; but not equally.  Those who dre
am by night in the dusty recesses of their minds wake in the day to find it was vanity; but the dreamers of the day are dangerous men, for they may act their dreams with open eyes, to make it possible," in the introduction to his book }{\i 
SEVEN PILLARS OF WISDOM}{.  For ten points, name this man immortalized by Peter O'Toole in a movie about his exploits in Arabia.
\par }{\i  }{T.E. }{\b LAWRENCE }{or}{\b  LAWRENCE }{OF ARABIA
\par 
\par BONUS: Given an author\rquote s birth name, give the pseudonym under which the author wrote for five points each. 
\par Washington Irving\tab \tab \tab Deidrich }{\b Knickerbocker
\par }{Francois Arouet \tab \tab \tab }{\b Voltair\tab }{\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par William Sydney Porter \tab \tab }{\b O}{.}{\b  Henry}{
\par Neftali Recardo Reyes \tab \tab Pablo }{\b Neruda\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }{H.H. Monroe\tab \tab \tab \tab }{\b Saki\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }{Eric Arthur Blair\tab \tab \tab George }{\b Orwell}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\ri-1800\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {17. This is probably the only nation today to have a
 Hapsburg monarch, since Austria and Hungary have long since abolished theirs.  Itself only 61 square miles, it is situated between Switzerland and Austria and relies on the former to handle its international relations.  For ten points, what is this tiny 
principality whose capital is Vaduz?
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b {\cgrid  LIECHTENSTEIN
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {
\par }{Pencil and paper ready.  If you're familiar with the "Big Apple,\rdblquote  you should know that New York City is broken up into five boroughs: Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, Staten
 Island and the Bronx.  Each of those boroughs is a different county.  For five points each and five for all correct, give the county names of each of the five boroughs. 
\par 
\par }{\b NEW YORK }{COUNTY (for Manhattan) 
\par }{\b KINGS }{COUNTY (for Brooklyn) 
\par }{\b QUEENS }{COUNTY (for Queens) 
\par }{\b BRONX }{COUNTY (for Bronx)
\par }{\b RICHMOND }{COUNTY (for Staten Island)}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj\ri-1800\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f17 {18. }{\f0\cgrid In the Bible, it is described as "having a bitter taste.\rdblquote   In C. S. Lewis' }{\i\f0\cgrid Screwtape Letters}{\f0\cgrid 
, it is the name of Screwtape's demonic nephew.  In Russian, it is "Chernobyl.\rdblquote   For ten points}{\f0\cgrid , name this term which is also the name of Calvin\rquote s schoolteacher.}{\f0\cgrid 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\b\i  }{ }{\b WORMWOOD}{\b 
\par }{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {BONUS: For ten points each, given a description of a web site, name the site (You don\rquote t need the \ldblquote www\rdblquote  or \ldblquote dot com.\rdblquote  For example, simply saying \ldblquote Yahoo
\rdblquote  would be an acceptable answer).
\par This search engine was created by the folks at the Digital corporation. Its name suggests seeing something from up high.
\par \tab }{\b AltaVista}{
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ri-720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {This online person-to-person auction\rquote s stock soared after its IPO in the fall of 1998.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\tab }{\b eBay}{
\par This company advertises products like Visual Basic and Flight Simulator from its site.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab }{\b Microsoft}{
\par 
\par 19. }{\cgrid0 This chief\rquote s tribe did not walk the Trail of Tears, but it did trek more than one thousand miles from Oregon to Montana in an attempt to cross into Canada.  For ten pints, name this chief who humbly stated, \ldblquote 
I will fight no more forever.\rdblquote     
\par Chief }{\b\cgrid0 Joseph}{\cgrid0 
\par \tab Answer the following about Native Americans for 10 points each
\par \tab 1. This Floridian and Georgian tribe established a newspaper, and a written language and then sued the United States government.\tab }{\b\cgrid0 Cherokee
\par }{\cgrid0 \tab 2. Legendary mounds of earth were built near what Native American city, now part of southwest Illinois, in the 15th century       }{\b\cgrid0 Cahokia}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\cgrid0 \tab 3. He was the last Aztec emperor, the nephew of Montezuma     }{\b\cgrid0 Guatemotzin
\par 
\par 20. }{Emily Bronte\rquote s }{\ul Wuthering Heights}{, since its publication in 1849, has given rise to movies, popular songs, and poetry. One such Bronte-inspired poem can be found in }{\ul Crossing the Water}{
, a book of poems by this wife of Ted Hughes. For ten points, name this poet who committed suicide by suffocating herself in an oven.
\par \tab Sylvia }{\b Plath
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f16 Charles Dickens left }{\i\f16 The Mystery of Edwin Drood}{\f16 
 unfinished at his death.  These other writers left unfinished works as well.  For 15 points each, given the unfinished work, name the writer.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\i\f16\cgrid \hich\af16\dbch\af0\loch\f16 1.\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\i\f16 The Last Tycoon}{\f16 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f16 F. SCOTT}{\b\f16  FITZGERALD
\par }{\f16 2. }{\i\f16 Kubla Khan
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f16 SAMUEL TAYLOR}{\b\f16  COLERIDGE}{
\par }}