{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times;}
{\f16\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0806030902050204}Impact;}{\f67\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f68\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f70\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f71\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f72\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f163\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Impact CE;}{\f164\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Impact Cyr;}{\f166\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Impact Greek;}
{\f167\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Impact Tur;}{\f168\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Impact Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 
\snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright 
\fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\*\cs18 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext19 Body Text;}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator rf49}{\creatim\yr1998\mo2\dy3\hr23\min22}
{\revtim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr5\min21}{\version8}{\edmins36}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2624}{\nofchars14960}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws18371}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 
\fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round 7.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\lang1024 7}}}{ of 7
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\f16\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f16\fs48 ROUND 7: TOSSUPS}{
\f16\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\footery1030\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round }{7}{.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst {
 PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 7}}}{ of 7
\par }\pard \s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright {
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {1. Born in London in 1879, this artist was one of the Royal Academy Schools\rquote  youngest students. He fought in WWI, and sent many drawings to various publications in England. After working for }{\i Punch}{
, FTP, what artist went on to produce sketches for many children\rquote s books, including Richard Jefferies\rquote  }{\i Bevis}{, Kenneth Grahame\rquote s }{\i The Wind in the Willows}{, and A.A. Milne\rquote s }{\i Winnie\_the\_Pooh}{?
\par ANSWER: Ernest }{\b\ul Shepard}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {2. Simmons College. Mills College. Pine Manor College. Blue Mountain College. Elms College. Smith College. Bryn Mawr College. These colleges have something something that both Vassa
r and Wheaton do not. FTP, identify the common feature that the Citadel definitely lacks.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul women}{ [ACC: equivalents]
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {3. WARNING: Full name required. Often called the first American psychologist, his 1930 }{\i Principles of Psychology}{ supported ideas such
 as functional and pragmatic orientation. He was among the first to claim that consciousness is personal and continuous, thus defining stream\_of\_consciousness. FTP, name this former Harvard physiology instructor and brother of author Henry James.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul William James}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
4. The daughter of Cronus and Rhea, she gave birth to Eilithya and Hebe, the goddesses of childbirth and eternal youth, respectively.  She was also the mother of Area and Hephaestus, whom she tossed down a mountain at birth upon seeing his ug
liness.  For ten points, name this queen of the Greek pantheon, Zeus\rquote  third and most possessive wife.
\par }\pard \ri-720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {Answer: }{\b\ul Hera}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {5. During an 1812 Baltimore riot, someone tried to remove his nose with a knife. Humiliated by this and his financial plight, this former Vi
rginia governor entered a self-imposed exile in the West Indies and died in Georgia, never returning home. FTP identify this nicknamed father of a famous Confederate General.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Henry Lee}{ or Light Horse }{\b\ul Harry Lee}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 6. Dudley Moore. Sting. Sir John Giel
gud. Patrick Stewart. Noel Coward. David Bowie. All of these men have served as narrator for the same piece. FTP, identify this composition by Sergei Prokofiev, which tells the story of a boy who catches a hunter using a bell.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Peter and the Wolf}{ [DNA: \ldblquote Dune\rdblquote ]
\par 
\par }\pard \ri-720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {7. Melitians, Donatists, Nestorians, Monophysites, Albigensians, Arians. FAQTP, by what term are these and other deviations from orthodox Christianity known as?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul heretic}{s
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {8. The only source of information concerning his early life is a
 biographical poem by Blind Harry. At the Battle of Stirling Bridge, he defeated English forces attempting to cross the Forth River. But in the next year was defeated by Edward I at the Battle of Falkirk. FTP, name this Scottish national hero who was exec
uted in 1305 for inciting rebellion against England.
\par ANSWER: Sir William }{\b\ul Wallace}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 9. The Panama Canal opens. No Nobel prizes are awarded for the first time since their inception. The Russian army is defeated at Tannenberg. FTP, in what year did these event
s take place, the same year that Archduke Franz Ferdinand was assassinated?
\par ANSWER: 19}{\b\ul 14}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {10. Stranded in the 1200s, a man is mistaken as a spy and taken prisoner. After proving his merit in The Pit, Bruce Campbell tries to retrieve the }{\i Necronomicon}{
, which will return him to his own time. Unfortunately, he accidentally unleashes, FTP, what undead militia, the title of a 1992 movie also known as }{\i Evil Dead 3}{?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Army of Darkness}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {11. With countryman Christopher Okigbo, he launched a publishing com
pany in 1967. Educated in English at the University of Ibadan, he is most famous for a book that mentions yams repeatedly. In 1973 he became an English professor at the University of Nigeria. FTP, name this author of }{\i Things Fall Apart}{.
\par ANSWER: Chinua }{\b\ul Achebe
\par }{
\par 12. First isolated from fire\_flies, this fiendishly named protein is used in genetics because of its fluorescence. A famous experiment with this protein created a glowing tobacco plant. FTP, name this protein, which you might want on your side fighting 
the Devil, since its name suggests it can break down Lucifer.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul luciferase}{
\par 
\par 13. Contrary to popular belief, it cannot involve energy and time, because there is no quantum mechanical operator for time. However, it }{\i does}{\~relate position to linear moment
um. FTP, identify this equation that makes it impossible to simultaneously find certain values with infinite precision.
\par ANSWER: the }{\b\ul Heisenberg uncertainty}{\~principle
\par 
\par 14. \ldblquote A baby smiles and a flower grows\rdblquote  was  his campaign slogan for the mayoral race in Oakland, California. He moved, with his political organization \ldblquote We the People,\rdblquote 
 to the Bay Area after his third failed presidential bid in 1992. After losing a Senate election to Pete Wilson in 1982, he worked with Mother Teresa in India. FTP, name this former California governor and advocate of a flat tax.
\par ANSWER: Edmund Gerald \ldblquote Jerry\rdblquote  }{\b\ul Brown}{, Jr.
\par 
\par 15. On October 28, 1997, residents of this African country awoke to a broadcast on state radio by a man calling himself Captain Soho. He claimed he had taken over 
the country, and that President Frederick T.J. Chiluba had until 9 AM to surrender or be killed. Despite these threats, the coup attempt was suppressed in just 3 hours by Chiluba and the military. FTP, name this country, with capital Lusaka. 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Zambia}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {16. }{\f0 The widowed Charlotte Haze marries Humbert Humbert, not knowing that he has an obsession with nymphets. While on a cross-country trip, he is seduced by Charlotte\rquote 
s 12-year old daughter, the title character of the novel. FTP, name this Vladimir Nabokov work whose title following the words \ldblquote Long Island\rdblquote  can refer to Amy Fisher.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Lolita}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {17. It will pass within 10,000 miles of Earth in August 1999, after having flown by Venus twice.
\par Named for an Italian astronomer who studied the rings of Saturn, this NASA probe was launched towards that planet last October. FTP name this controversial probe that is toting 30 kilograms of plutonium onboard.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Cassini}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {18. The Denver Gold. The Jacksonville Bulls. The Memphis Showboats. The Boston Breakers. The Arizona Wranglers. The New Jersey Generals. FTP, to what now\_defunct spring football league did all these teams belong?

\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul U}{nited }{\b\ul S}{tates }{\b\ul F}{ootball }{\b\ul L}{eague
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {19. Though it has just 1 million inhabitants, this island nation is one of the world\rquote 
s most densely populated. With an economy dominated by sugar cane, its population consists largely of Indians, with a sizeable minority of mixed African-European creoles a
nd Chinese.  FTP, name this nation off the coast of Madagascar, with capital Port Louis, named for Dutch stadtholder Maurice of Nassau.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Mauritius}{
\par 
\par 20. He once remarked \ldblquote I }{\i am}{\~Providence.\rdblquote  Born in Providence in 1890, this author, described by Joyce Carol Oates as \ldblquote most asexual\rdblquote , wrote many short stories, such as \ldblquote The Shunned House,\rdblquote 
 set in New England, often in the fictional town of Arkham. FTP, identify this Gothic author, compared to Poe, best known for stories such as \ldblquote The Call of Cthulhu\rdblquote  [kuh-THOOL-hoo].
\par ANSWER: Howard Phillips }{\b\ul Lovecraft}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {21. In Arthur C. Clarke\rquote s }{\i Tales from the White Hart}{
, this property is used to make a bomb; it can also be used to determine molecular masses of solids. This property helps cell membranes remain stable. FTP, identify this property, caused by an excess of solute on one side of a semipermeable membrane.

\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul osmotic pressure}{ or }{\b\ul osmosis}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {22. The first name is the same but the spelling is not. One is a Columbia defensive lineman who was selected by the Buffalo Bills in the 1997 NFL draft. The other is Butch Coolidge\rquote s bandaged enemy\emdash 
played by Ving Rhames\emdash in the movie }{\i Pulp Fiction}{. FTP identify this name whose first two syllables are shared by a monkey from the TV show, }{\i Friends}{.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Marcellus}{ (Marcellus Wiley and Marsellus Wallace)
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {23. It takes the form of a dialogue in which Piscator tries to convince the hunter, Venator, that fishing is the superior sport. The author of this book is even referred to in Dickens\rquote s }{\i A Tale of Two Cities}{
. FAQTP, name this 1653 treatise by Englishman Izaak Walton.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Compleat Angler}{, }{\i or the Contemplative Man\rquote s Recreation}{
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page }{\f16\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f16\fs48 ROUND 7: BONI}{\f16\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {1. Given the name of a U.S. newspaper, identify the city in which it is published, 10 points each. Each city is among the 10 most heavily-populated in the U.S.
\par a.\tab }{\i Express-News}{\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul San Antonio}{, Texas
\par b.\tab }{\i Free Press}{\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Detroit}{, Michigan
\par c.\tab }{\i Union-Tribune}{\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul San Diego}{, California
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {2. Ten points each, who composed }{\i Pictures at an Exhibition}{, and for what instrument was it written?
\par ANSWER: Modest }{\b\ul Mussorgsky}{ for the }{\b\ul piano}{
\par For 10 more points, which composer orchestrated }{\i Pictures}{?
\par ANSWER: Maurice }{\b\ul Ravel}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {3. Identify the author of these Latin American works of literature, given titles in the }{\i original}{ language, ten points each. 
\par a.\tab }{\i San Manuel Bueno, M\'e1rtir}{, an existential work about an unbelieving priest
\par \tab ANSWER: Miguel de }{\b\ul Unamuno}{ y Jugo
\par b.\tab }{\i Libro de Arena}{, about a Yale librarian.
\par \tab ANSWER: Jorge Luis }{\b\ul Borges}{
\par c.\tab }{\i Cien Anos de Soledad}{, about several generations of a Colombian family.
\par \tab ANSWER: Gabriel }{\b\ul Garc\'eda Marquez}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {4. It\rquote s time for an either/or bonus! Ten points each, answer these related questions.
\par a.\tab Name }{\i either}{\~Giuseppe Verdi\rquote s last opera, }{\i or}{\~the opera house in which it was performed.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Falstaff}{\i \~}{or Teatro }{\b\ul La Scala}{
\par b.\tab Name }{\i either}{\~the Shakespeare comedy in which Falstaff appears }{\i or}{\~Falstaff\rquote s first name.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Merry Wives of Windsor}{\~or Sir }{\b\ul John}{ Falstaff
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab Name }{\i either}{\~the British king who adopted the Windsor name }{\i or}{\~the American city across the border from Windsor, Ontario.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul George V}{ or }{\b\ul Detroit}{, Michigan
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {5. Answer these questions about the NHL, 10 points per part.
\par a.\tab Name the winner and loser of the 1997 Stanley Cup playoffs.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Detroit}{\~(and/or }{\b\ul Red Wings}{), }{\b\ul Philadelphia}{\~(and/or }{\b\ul Flyers}{)
\par b.\tab Which team signed away Mark Messier from the New York Rangers?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Vancouver}{\~Canucks
\par }\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab In response, what player did the Rangers try to sign away from the Colorado Avalanche with a $15 million signing bonus?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Joe }{\b\ul Sakic}{\~[HN: The Avalanche matched the offer.]
\par 
\par 6. Answer the following questions about our solar neighborhood, for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab For 5 points, name the large cloud of comets that encircles the solar system.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Oort Cloud}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab For 10 points name the continuous flow of particles away from the sun. The particles in this flow move at about 400 kilometers per second in paths determined by magnetic fields.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: the }{\b\ul solar wind}{
\par c.\tab 10 for 1, 15 for both, name the two largest asteroids in the asteroid belt.
\par \tab ANSWER: 1 }{\b\ul Ceres}{ and 2 }{\b\ul Pallas}{
\par 7.}{\b  }{How much do you know about post-war Germany? Let\rquote s find out, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab When the US, France, and Britain saw that the Soviets would not allow Germany to be reunited, they merged their occupation zones into what entity that later became West Germany?
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Trizonia}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab Name the document that created the Federal Republic of Germany and now serves as Germany\rquote s constitution.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: The }{\b\ul Basic Law}{ 
\par c.\tab Name the first president of the Federal Republic of Germany elected under the Basic Law.
\par \tab ANSWER: Konrad }{\b\ul Adenauer}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 8. For 10 points each, identify the art movement, given the origins of its name:
\par a.\tab Louis Vauxcelles coined it. It comes from the quote \ldblquote Donnatello among the wild beasts\rdblquote .
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul fauvism}{
\par }\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab Louis Leroy disdainfully labeled the group, saying \ldblquote wallpaper in its embryonic state is more finished\rdblquote .
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul impressionism}{
\par c.\tab This French term was derived from a Paris shop. It is also known as }{\i Ju-gend-stil}{ in German.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul art nouveau}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {9. For 10 points each, answer these questions about recent museum projects. 
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab In October, 1997, a new branch of this famous New York City museum opened in Spain, under architect Frank O. Gehry.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: The }{\b\ul Guggenheim}{ Museum
\par b.\tab What city in the Northern Basque region of Spain is the new museum in?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Bilbao}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab This museum, set to open in Los Angeles in December, was designed by Richard Meier, and is said to be the most expensive arts complex ever built.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: The }{\b\ul Getty}{ Center
\par 
\par 10. Identify the philosopher from clues provided.
\par 30:\tab He was born, spent his entire life, and died in K\'f6nigsberg, in East Prussia, now part of Russia.  20:\tab Among his lesser known works are }{\i Religion within the Limits of Reason Alone}{ and }{\i Critique of 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\i Practical Reason}{.  Housewives in Konigsberg could set their clocks by his regular daily walks.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {10:\tab He has been called perhaps the most important European philosopher of modern times; he 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {created the categorical imperative and his masterpiece is the }{\i Critique of Pure Reason}{.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Immanuel }{\b\ul Kant}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {11. Answer the following about things that begin with \ldblquote A\rdblquote  in }{\i The Odyssey}{, ten points each.
\par a.\tab Name Odysseus\rquote s dog.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Argos}{
\par b.\tab Which of his wife\rquote s suitors did Odysseus kill first?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Antin\'f6os}{
\par c.\tab Odysseus stayed with a certain king who had a daughter named Nausikaa. Name this king.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Alkin\'f6os}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\page 12. With President Clinton\rquote s current legal troubles in the news, talk of impeachment has abounded. Answer these questions about the impeachment process, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Who is the only American President to have been impeached?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Andrew Johnson}{
\par b.\tab If Clinton were impeached, who would preside over the trial?
\par \tab ANSWER: Chief Justice William Hubbs }{\b\ul Rehnquist}{
\par c.\tab What fraction of the Senate\rquote s vote is necessary for conviction?
\par \tab ANSWER:}{\b\ul  two-thirds}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {13.}{\b  }{Given a ruling family, identify the first ruler of that family for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Valois\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Louis XI}{
\par b.\tab Romanov\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Michael I}{
\par c.\tab Stuart\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul James I}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {14. Answer these questions about the }{\i Star Wars}{ trilogy, for the stated number of points.
\par 5:\tab In }{\i Return of the Jedi}{, these furry creatures aid the Rebels.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Ewok}{s
\par 10:\tab In }{\i The Empire Strikes Back}{, we learn that these creatures smell \ldblquote even worse on the inside\rdblquote .
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Tauntaun}{s [tawn-tawn]
\par 15:\tab In }{\i Star Wars}{, the rebel base was on a moon orbiting which planet?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Yavin}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {15. Given the ancient governmental office, name the country in which you would find it:
\par a. \tab Strategos \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Athens}{ or }{\b\ul Greece}{ (one of the ten Athenian generals)
\par b. \tab Praetor\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Rome}{ (a governor and judicial official)
\par c. \tab Satrap\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Persia}{ (a provincial governor)
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {16. Projectile physics is fun, so get ready to record the foll
owing. Assume that acceleration due to gravity is negative 10 meters per second squared. You throw a ball with initial velocity 20 meters per second, 30 degrees above the horizontal. Answer the following questions, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab How high, in meters, will the ball rise? }{\i You have 15 seconds.}{
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 5}{ meters
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab How far, in meters, will the ball horizontally travel before returning to the height from which you threw it? }{\i You have 15 seconds.}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 20 root 3}{ or }{\b\ul 20 radical 3}{ or }{\b\ul 20 times the square root of 3}{ [accept equivalents]
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab Without changing its initial speed, you could have thrown the ball so that it would have gone farther. How could you have }{\i maximized}{ the total horizontal distance?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: throw the ball at a }{\b\ul 45 degree}{ angle to horizontal
\par 
\par 17. Answer these questions on geometrical geography, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab The residents of which European country refer to their nation as \ldblquote The Hexagon\rdblquote ?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul France}{
\par b. \tab Which state has no straight-line borders of ten miles or longer?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Hawaii}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab Assume the equator is the x-axis and the Prime Meridian the y-axis on a piece of graph paper. Name }{\i either}{ the first country along the x-axis }{\i or}{
 along the y-axis, moving in a positive direction.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Ghana}{ or }{\b\ul Gabon}{
\par 
\par \page 18. Identify these Jewish fasts, for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab This fast of atonement is the holiest day of the Jewish year.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Yom Kippur}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab The fast named for this queen occurs just before the festival of Purim, and commemorates her fast before begging King Ahasueras to save her people.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Fast of }{\b\ul Esther}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab This fast commemorates the destruction of the First and Second Temples, both of which happened on this same day of the Jewish calendar.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Tish B\rquote Av
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {19. Time to get touchy-feely. Captain, touch another person on your team on the indicated body part. Ten points with one finger, 5 points with an open hand. You must decide which method to use for each part.
\par a.\tab One of the two pinnas.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Any part of the ear}{ that is not the ear lobe [this is being lenient].
\par b.\tab The laryngial prominance.
\par \tab ANSWER: The }{\b\ul hard protrusion in the throat}{ known as the adams apple.
\par c.\tab A malleolus. There are four of them.
\par \tab ANSWER: The large }{\b\ul bony bumps on the ankle}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {20. Identify the locations where these literary works are set for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab }{\i A Streetcar Named Desire}{\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul New Orleans}{, Louisiana
\par b.\tab }{\i The Jungle}{\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Chicago}{, Illinois
\par c.\tab }{\i Porgy and Bess}{\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Charleston}{, South Carolina
\par 
\par 21. For 10 points, what British author\rquote s first play, }{\i Look Back in Anger}{, achieved immediate fame in the mid\_1950s, making him spokesman for a new generation of British writers of raw, emotional dramas?
\par ANSWER: John }{\b\ul Osborne}{
\par For 10 points, name either the group of novelists to which Osborne belonged, or the type of dramas they wrote, named for the fact that they included almost everything.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Angry Young Men}{\~or }{\b\ul kitchen-sink}{ dramas
\par And for 10 more points, Osborne\rquote s 1957 play }{\i The Entertainer}{ was a tour\_de\_force performance for
\par what famed British thespian?
\par ANSWER: Sir Laurence }{\b\ul Olivier}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 22. Identify the transition metal or its atomic symbol from clues, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab \ldblquote Purple benzene\rdblquote  contains a salt of this Group 7 element commonly found in 5+ and 7+ oxidation states.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul manganese}{\~or }{\b\ul Mn}{
\par b.\tab This pricey transition element found in a }{\i d}{8 configuration is used in anti\_tumor medications.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul platinum}{\~or }{\b\ul Pt}{
\par c.\tab This is the only synthetic transition metal.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul technetium}{\~or }{\b\ul Tc}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {23. For 10 points, John Heyl Vincent founded a lecture series for Methodist Sunday school teachers in what New York town?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Chautauqua}{, NY
\par For 10 more points, what author, a member of the Chautauqua [SHUH-taw-kwa] Literary and Scientific Circle, wrote }{\i The History of the Standard Oil Company}{?
\par ANSWER: Ida }{\b\ul Tarbell}{
\par For a final 10 points, who used the term \ldblquote muckraker\rdblquote  to describe writers such as Tarbell?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul T}{heodore }{\b\ul Roosevelt}{
\par }}