{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 1e30010000001803de0f}TIMES;}
{\f43\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0806030902050204}Impact;}{\f74\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f75\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f77\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f78\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f79\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f332\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Impact CE;}{\f333\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Impact Cyr;}{\f335\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Impact Greek;}
{\f336\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Impact Tur;}{\f337\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Impact Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 
\snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright 
\fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\*\cs18 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext19 Body Text;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1682472092\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat3\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid1603343161}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1603343161\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info
{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator stismail}{\creatim\yr1998\mo2\dy3\hr23\min22}{\revtim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr6\min22}{\printim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr6\min22}{\version14}{\edmins55}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords2560}{\nofchars14594}{\*\company Yale University}
{\nofcharsws17922}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round 14.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 7}}}{ of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs18  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\cs18\lang1024 8}}}{
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\f43\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 
SEMIFINALS (ROUND 14): TOSSUPS}{\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1120\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Semifinals.\tab Page }
{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 8}}}{ of }{\cs18 8
\par }{
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 
\par \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {1. Born in Canton, China in 1917, he immigrated to the United States in 1935. He studied architecture at MIT and Harvard. His massive projects include the Mile High Center a
nd the John Hancock Tower. FTP, name this architect whose projects also include the rebuilding of the Louvre.
\par ANSWER: Ieoh Ming }{\b\ul Pei}{
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
2. The Pontic Mountains run through the north of this country, and the Taurus Mountains through the south. Its principal rivers include the Goksu and the Seyan. Its highest mountain is Mount Ararat, at over 5100 meters. FTP, name this Eurasian country who
se largest city was the subject of a song covered by They Might Be Giants.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: Republic of }{\b\ul Turkey}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {3. Jeanna Elfman plays as a San Francisco yoga instructor and dog trainer who attacks life unconventionally. She goes out with a U.S. Attorney, played by Tom Gibson, and by the end of the first date, they\rquote 
re married. Hijinks ensue as these lovers from two different worlds commit to each other and their marriage. FTP, name this ABC television show.
\par ANSWER:}{\b\i  }{\b\i\ul Dharma and Greg
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {4. Lacking one of these, a Florida prisoner challenged his breaking and entering conviction to the Supreme Court. In response, the Attorney General solicited states to file }{\i amicus}{
 briefs. They overwhelmingly supported plaintiff Clarence Ray Gideon. FTP, what did Gideon lack in his first trial, something the Supreme Court decided was mandated by the Sixth Amendment in}{\i  Gideon v. Wainwright}{?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: defense }{\b\ul attorney}{ or }{\b\ul counsel}{ or }{\b\ul lawyer}{ (etc.)
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {5. Eight Nobel Prizes in Chemistry have been awarded for work on t
his compound and its derivatives. Synthesized in the body from squalene [SKWAY-lean], the proportion of this compound in membranes helps determine their rigidity. FTP, name this steroid which doesn\rquote t belong in arteries.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul cholesterol}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {6. Instrumental in fighting for radical land reform, this physician helped found Prensa Latina, Cuba\rquote s state news agency. As Castro\rquote 
s chief lieutenant, he commanded the victory at Santa Clara in December 1958 that forced Fulgencio Batista into exile. FTP name this Argentine socialist who organized unsuccessful revolutions throughout Latin America until his 1967 execution in Bolivia.

\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: Ernesto \ldblquote Che\rdblquote  }{\b\ul Guevara}{ de la Serna
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {7. It can mean to twist together or to keep furnishing or supplying something. Generally, it is on
e of several layers that are somehow attached together. This toilet paper with three of these is nice and soft and thick. And if a chess computer can look ahead 16 of these, it can see 8 moves ahead. FAQTP, what is this 3\_letter word or its plural?

\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul ply}{ or }{\b\ul plies}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {8. His Latin works include }{\i De Viris Il-lus-tri-bus}{ and }{\i De Vita Sol-i-ta-ri-a}{, but he is best known for his collections of verses, }{\i I Tri-on-fi}{ and }{\i Ri-me in vita e morta de Madonna Laura}{
. FTP, name this Italian poet, a pioneer in rediscovering the Latin classics, and friend of Boccaccio and the popularizer of the sonnet.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Petrarch}{\~or Francesca }{\b\ul Petrarca}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 9. He defended Socialist Eugene Debs in an 1894 labor strike case, but better publicized was his defense of Loeb and Leopold in their 19
24 trial for the murder of Bobby Franks. This, however, was no match for circus atmosphere of Dayton, Tennessee FTP name this labor lawyer who defended teacher John T. Scopes in the legendary Monkey Trial.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: Clarence Seward }{\b\ul Darrow}{
\par 
\par 10. Younger than Mozart at his death, this fast\_living composer of six }{\i Masses}{ and }{\i Der Winterreise}{ 
\par succumbed to syphilis contracted from a prostitute. FTP, name this Austrian }{\i lieder}{ composer, a contemporary of Beethoven who penned such works as }{\i Der Schwan-en-ge-sang}{ and }{\i Die Sch\'88ne Mullerin}{.
\par ANSWER: Franz }{\b\ul Schubert}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {11. In 1792 she left England to observe the French Revolution in Paris, where she passed as the wife of an American, Captain Gilbert Imlay. That same year she argued that \ldblquote mind has no sex\rdblquote  in }{\i 
A Vindication of the Rights of Woman}{. FTP, name this Enlightenment feminist who died giving birth to the author of }{\i Frankenstein}{.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: Mary }{\b\ul Wollstonecraft}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {12. This mega-corporation consists of a beverage division and a snack division. It used to have a restaurant di
vision that included Taco Bell, Pizza Hut, and KFC, but that was spun off into a separate company called TriconGlobal. FTP name this giant corporate entity that makes Frito Lay snacks and markets its trademark soda to \ldblquote Generation Next.
\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul PepsiCo}{, Incorporated [prompt on Pepsi]
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {13. While his uncle was Prime Minster, this Conservative earned the alliterative nickname \ldblquote bloody\rdblquote 
 for his opposition to Irish home rule. Prime Minster himself from 1902 to 1905, he gained more notoriety by writing a letter to
 Baron Rothschild in 1917. FTP identify this author of the declaration that pledged British aid for Zionist efforts to establish a Jewish homeland in Palestine.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: Arthur James }{\b\ul Balfour}{, 1st Earl of Balfour (of Whittingehame)
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {14. The diagonal line run
ning from upper left to lower right is the Main Sequence. Stars lying on it are blue when bright and red when dim. Stars in the upper right, Red Giants, are very bright, but still appear red. Stars near the bottom, or White Dwarfs, are white, but dim. FTP
, name this diagram for stellar analysis developed independently by a Dane and an American.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Hertzsprung-Russell}{\~diagram or }{\b\ul H-R}{ diagram
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {15. A lover of outdoor sports, he is repelled by sexual passion. Just before his mother dies, she accuses him of 
rape. As if he did not have enough problems, his father put a curse on him. After his death, Artemis proves his innocence. FTP, identify this character of dramas by Jean Racine and Euripides, son of Theseus and Phaedra.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Hippolytus}{\~[ACC: }{\b\ul Hippolyte}{]
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {16. He met his partner in an act where one man juggled plungers and the other one recited a poem about an obscure poet. This guest star on }{\i Lois and Clark }{and contributor to }{\i PC Computing }{doesn\rquote 
t want to be called a \ldblquote magician.\rdblquote  FTP identify this man who pokes fun at David Copperfield while performing magic tricks with Raymond Joseph Teller.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Penn}{\~Jillette
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 17. Poseidon once sent a snow-white bull to Crete to be sacrificed in his own honor. But the king would not do so, and kept the bull. As punishment, Poseidon made the king\rquote 
s wife Pasiphae fall in love with the bull. The resulting offspring of this union was fed Athenian youths as a sacrifice. For ten points, name this monster who lived in the center of the Labyrinth.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: the }{\b\ul Minotaur}{\~[HN: thankfully, he took after the father....]
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {18. On September 23, 200 people were killed. On September 19, the government killed 19 Islamic militants; five days earlier, another 11 were killed. And on August 29, 300 were massacred in this north African country bord
ering Libya. FTP, name this nation, where the government is fighting the Armed Islamic Group.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Algeria}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {19. Discovered in 1825, it states that the line integral of a magnetic field along a closed path is proportional to the net electric current enclosed therein. FTP, name this law, a recasting of the Biot\_
Savart law, revised by Maxwell, which shares its name with the SI unit for current. 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Ampere}{\rquote s law [AHM\_pair, but be nice]
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {20. One of the officers of the }{\i Patna}{, he frantically abandons ship as it appears to sink, leaving the passengers\emdash 800 Moslem pilgrims\emdash 
to apparently certain death. After the ship survives, he becomes an outcast, but obtains some self respect in a busy, useful life among the natives of Patusan. At novel\rquote s end, he is executed
 for a murder he did not commit. FTP, name this Joseph Conrad title character.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Lord Jim}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {21. Knowing his troops were outnumbered 2 to 1, this general capitalized on his superior cavalry, using them for a \ldblquote double envelopment\rdblquote 
 maneuver: the center infantry fell back so that flanks could encircle and destroy the attackers. This tactician was a famed Carthaginian general who fought against Rome in the Second Punic War. FTP name this man associated with Zama and elephants.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Hannibal}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
22. Types include Angora, Belgian, Himalayan, lop, Patagonian, Polish, and Flemish. Around 1860, seven were introduced at Invercarvill, Australia, and became a serious problem. The advent of myxomatosis, a virus fatal only to them, helped cut th
eir numbers, but it spread to Europe and killed many there. FTP, name this cute, long-eared animal of order }{\i Lagomorpha}{.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul rabbit}{s [ACC:\~reasonable equivalents]
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {23. Born in 1894 he was one of two famous authors who died the same day as John Kennedy. His grandfather coined the term \ldblquote agnostic\rdblquote  and was known as \ldblquote Darwin\rquote s Bulldog.\rdblquote 
 FTP name this author of }{\i Antic Hay, After Many a Summer Dies the Swan,}{ }{\i Eyeless in Gaza}{, and }{\i Brave New World}{.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: Aldous }{\b\ul Huxley
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page }{\f43\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 SEMIFINALS (ROUND 14): BONI}{\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {1. Many foreign phrases are commonly used in the United States. Given the language of origin and its meaning, identify the foreign phrase.
\par a.\tab Greek, \ldblquote I have found it.\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul eureka}{
\par b.\tab French, an easing or relaxation of strained relations
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul d\'e9tente}{
\par c.\tab Latin, something given or received for something else
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul quid pro quo}{
\par 
\par VISUAL BONUS
\par 2. Name the title or artist of the work for the stated number of points.
\par 5:\tab Item A.
\par \tab ANSWER: Andy }{\b\ul Warhol}{ or Andrew }{\b\ul Warhola}{
\par 10:\tab Item B.
\par \tab ANSWER: Edouard }{\b\ul Manet}{ or }{\b\i\ul Luncheon on the Grass}{ [ACC: }{\b\i\ul Le D\'e9jeuner sur l'herbe}{]
\par 15:\tab Item C, parts of the same work.
\par \tab ANSWER: Matthias }{\b\ul Gr\'fcnewald}{ or }{\b\i\ul Isenheim Alterpiece}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {3. The Newbery Medal is awarded for \ldblquote the most distinguished contribution to American literature for children.\rdblquote  15 points each, name these winners from an author, 10 from a description.
\par a.\tab 15:\tab Susan Cooper
\par }\pard \fi-720\li1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright {10:\tab The fourth installment of the series }{\i The Dark is Rising}{, this 1976 winner has young Will Stanton join Bran, a Welsh boy, to help the forces of Light defeat those of the Dark.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Grey King}{
\par b.\tab 15:\tab Robert C. O\rquote Brien
\par }\pard \fi-720\li1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright {10:\tab This 1972 winner has non\_humans Justin and Nicodemus. A mouse must seek the help of escapees from the National Institute of Mental Health to save her home and family.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {VISUAL BONUS.
\par 4. You will be shown three organic molecules. Black bonds are carbon-carbon single bonds; gray bonds are double bonds. For 10 points each, identify each compound.
\par a.\tab [Model #1]\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul pentane}{
\par b.\tab [Model #2]\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul butane}{
\par c.\tab [Model #3]\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul cyclohexane}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 5. The pen may indeed be mightier than the sword. Answer the following, 15 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab After a relative of Wilhelm I withdrew a c
laim to the Spanish throne, the French ambassador asked Wilhelm for assurances the claim would never be renewed. Wilhelm refused and sent this telegram to Bismarck, which Bismarck leaked to insult the French, who took the bait and declared war. 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: the }{\b\ul Ems}{ dispatch or telegram
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab Germany wound up on the wrong end of a leaked document in 1917, when this secret message requesting that Mexico attack the US was made public.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: the }{\b\ul Zimmermann}{\b  }{note
\par 
\par 6. Given a quote, identify the book of the Bible, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab \ldblquote Nation shall not lift up a sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more.\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Isaiah}{\~2:4
\par b.\tab \ldblquote O Man, greatly beloved! Fear not, peace be unto thee, be strong. Yea, be strong!\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Daniel}{ 10:11
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab \ldblquote And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first earth and the first heaven were passed away.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Revelation}{ [ACC: }{\b\ul Revelations}{]
\par 
\par AUDIO BONUS
\par 7. 30-20-10. Identify the 20th century composer from clips.
\par 30:\tab [Clip #1: }{\i Missa brevis}{]
\par 20:\tab [Clip #2: }{\i Chichester Psalms}{]
\par 10:\tab [Clip #3: }{\i West Side Story}{]
\par \tab ANSWER: Leonard }{\b\ul Bernstein}{ 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {8. For 10 points each, calculate the }{\i indefinite}{ integrals of the following two functions. Assume the constant of integration is zero. }{\i You have 15 seconds per part}{.
\par a.\tab sine of }{\i x}{\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul -cos }{\b\i\ul x}{ [negative cosine of }{\i x}{]
\par b.\tab 1 over }{\i x}{\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul ln }{\b\i\ul x}{ [natural log of }{\i x}{]
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 c.\tab}}\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart3\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {The integral of 1/}{\i x}{\~
cannot be calculated at }{\i x}{\~= 0. For 10 points, what term is given to such integrals?\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul improper}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {9. Yes, the Hundred Years\rquote  War lasted over 100 years, and no, it wasn\rquote t just one war. Ten points\~each, name these battles from descriptions.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab During the second English invasion of France, English bowmen unexpectedly clobbered mail-clad French knights in 1346.\tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Crecy}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab The Black Death interrupted the war, but in 1356 the English invaded again and, again, their archers won a major victory.\tab \tab 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Poitiers}{
\par c.\tab After sixty years of war and peace, in 1415 Henry V defeated a much larger French force.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Agincourt}{
\par \page VISUAL BONUS.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {10.}{\f0  You have before you copies of three album covers. FTP each, specify the cover and name the artist.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {a.\tab Album A\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: The }{\b\ul Clash}{ 
\par b.\tab Album B\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: David}{\i  }{\b\ul Bowie
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab Album C\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Chemical Brothers}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {11. Identify the playwrights from works, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab }{\i Happy Days}{ and }{\i Krapp\rquote s Last Tape\tab \tab \tab }{ANSWER: Samuel }{\b\ul Beckett}{
\par b.\tab }{\i Caligula }{and }{\i Requiem for a Nun\tab \tab \tab \tab }{ANSWER: Albert }{\b\ul Camus}{
\par c.\tab }{\i The Bald Soprano }{and }{\i Rhinocerous\tab \tab \tab }{ANSWER: Eugene }{\b\ul Ionesco}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 12. For 10 points each, identify the US President who appointed the following Supreme Court Justices.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab Byron \ldblquote Whizzer\rdblquote  White\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: John Fitzgerald }{\b\ul Kennedy}{
\par b.\tab John Paul Stevens\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Gerald Rudolph }{\b\ul Ford}{, Jr.
\par c.\tab David Souter\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: George Herbert Walker }{\b\ul Bush}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {13. }{\f0 Answer the following questions about American Labor for fifteen points each.
\par }\pard \s19\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 a.\tab This man headed the United Mine Workers of America from 1929-1960. He became the first president of the CIO in 1936. Name this fierce activist whose succ
essful coal strikes helped inspire conservatives to pass the restrictive Smith-Connally and Taft-Hartley acts.
\par }\pard \s19\fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 ANSWER: John L. }{\b\f0\ul Lewis}{\f0 
\par }\pard \s19\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 b.\tab Founded by Uriah S. Stephens, this organization was the first prominent national labor organization in America. Its memb
ership reached a peak of 700,000 members in 1886, but it eventually succumbed to nationwide anti-union sentiment and internal member dissatisfaction.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\tab ANSWER: The Noble Order of }{\b\ul The Knights of Labor}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {14. 30-20-10. Identify the author.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {30:\tab Born in Wales, he
 graduated from Repton, a renowned British public school, worked in Dar es Salaam, and was seriously injured as a fighter pilot in World War II, before becoming assistant air attache in Washington. Soon afterward he published stories about his flying care
er.
\par 20:\tab His first book, }{\i The Gremlins}{ was written for Walt Disney and later became a popular movie. He later wrote the script for }{\i Chitty Chitty Bang Bang}{ and his book }{\i Charlie and the Chocolate Factory}{ was turned into }{\i 
Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory}{.
\par 10:\tab Among other recently-filmed works are }{\i Matilda}{ and }{\i James and the Giant Peach}{.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Roald }{\b\ul Dahl}{
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {15. Identify the type of force from clues, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab This is the term given to any interaction force caused by touching of two surfaces.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul contact}{\~forces
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab When a body is pressed against a surface, the body experiences }{\i this}{ force that is perpendicular to the surface.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul normal}{ force
\par c.\tab This term describes any force for which total energy is conserved.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul conservative}{\~force
\par \page 16. Identify these figures from Egyptian mythology from a brief description for ten points each.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {a. \tab The god of the underworld and judge of the dead, a son of Geb and Nut.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Osiris}{
\par b.\tab The goddess of motherhood and fertility, she was the sister and wife of Osiris.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Isis}{
\par c.\tab The god of darkness and evil, he was the brother and enemy of Osiris.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Set}{ or }{\b\ul Seth}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {17. For 10 points each, given the country, name the capital, which all }{\i end}{ with the letter \ldblquote A.\rdblquote 
\par a.\tab Slovakia\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Bratislava}{
\par b.\tab Bangladesh\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Dhaka}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab Eritrea\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Asmara}{
\par 
\par 18. Answer these questions which may or may not be related, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab What physical phenomenon is the lagging of an effect on a body behind its cause, such as elongation?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul hysteresis}{
\par b.\tab What is the term for the surgical removal of the uterus?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul hysterectomy}{
\par c.\tab What Titan was the father of the sun god Helios?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Hyperion}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {19. Answer the following about recent events involving Harvard-graduate Theodore Kaczynski for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Spell Theodore\rquote s last name.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul K-A-C-Z-Y-N-S-K-I}{
\par b.\tab What item did he use to attempt suicide on January 8, 1998?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul underwear}{ or some equivalent
\par c.\tab  What Yale professor and Unabom victim wrote a book on his ordeal?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: David }{\b\ul Gelernter}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {20. Given the name of a country as it was known in ancient Rome, identify the modern name, for the stated number of points.
\par 5:\tab Gallia\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul France}{
\par 10:\tab Lusitania\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Portugal}{
\par 15:\tab Illyricum\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Slovenia}{ }{\i or }{\b\ul Croatia}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {21. 30-20-10. Identify the writer from clues.
\par 30:\tab He abandoned his career as a samurai to pursue more tranquil poetic endeavors.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {20: \tab He travelled widely in Japan and competed in competitions with local poets composing }{\i renga,}{ or linked verse.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {10: \tab He invented the quintessential Japanese poetic form, the haiku.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Matsuro }{\b\ul Basho}{ or Matsuro }{\b\ul Munefusa}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 22. 30-20-10. Identify the edible thing.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {30:\tab Any of several type of trees belonging to the genus }{\i Citrus}{ and family }{\i Ru-ta-ce-ae}{ or the fruits they produce.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {20:\tab Varieties include the China, or common, the Seville, or sour, the Maltese, or blood, and the Jaffa.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {10:\tab 40% of the US crop goes to make frozen, concentrated juice and they are a source for punchlines to bad knock-knock jokes. Byproducts of production include marmalade and candied peels.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul orange}{s
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {23. For 10 points each, answer these questions about the Tour de France.
\par a.\tab Who won the 1997 Tour?
\par \tab ANSWER: Jan }{\b\ul Ullrich}{\~
\par b.\tab Who repeated as \ldblquote King of the Mountains\rdblquote ?
\par \tab ANSWER: Richard }{\b\ul Virenque}{
\par c.\tab For 5 points each, what color jerseys do the leader of the tour and the sprint leader wear?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul green}{ and }{\b\ul yellow}{
\par }{\fs24 
\par }}