{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}
{\f16\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0806030902050204}Impact;}{\f67\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f68\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f70\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f71\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f72\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f163\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Impact CE;}{\f164\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Impact Cyr;}{\f166\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Impact Greek;}
{\f167\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Impact Tur;}{\f168\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Impact Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 
\snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright 
\fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\*\cs18 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1540259622\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers
\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid199167294}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid199167294\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator rf49}{\creatim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr4\min25}
{\revtim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr5\min17}{\version3}{\edmins0}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2497}{\nofchars14233}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0
\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round 2.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\lang1024 2}}}{ of }{\cs18 7}{
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\f16\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f16\fs48 ROUND 2: TOSSUPS}{
\f16\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\footery1030\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 
\par \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }{1. Pencil
 and paper ready. A worker on Floor 100 of the Sears tower drops a wrench down the elevator shaft. Assume that acceleration due to gravity is negative 10 meters per second per second and that the wrench is in frictionless free fall. FTP, how many meters h
as the wrench fallen after 2 seconds? }{\i You have 10 seconds to buzz in.}{
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul 20}{
\par 
\par 2. M/DR. As punishment for his crimes, this giant's son was bound to a rock under a serpent who would drip poison into his face until Ragnarok. This giant was the husband of S
igyn and the father of Hel, the Midgard serpent, and Fenris the Wolf. FTP, name this trickster of Norse myth, whose machinations led to the death of Balder.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Loki}{
\par 
\par 3. His long, allegorical novels use different kinds of humor but are focused around serious existential themes. }{\i The Floating Opera}{ is about a nihilist who can find no reason for suicide and }{\i The Sot-Weed Factor}{
 is a parody of history and picaresque novels. FTP, name this author best known for his novel in which the world is conceived as a computer-run university, }{\i Giles Goat-Boy}{.
\par ANSWER: John }{\b\ul Barth}{
\par 
\par 4. As French Prime Minister from 1642\endash 1661, he came to power with a desire to end the Thirty Years War. At home
, he suppressed the Fronde uprising. His reputation is overshadowed, however, by the young king whom he educated and the powerful Cardinal he succeeded. FTP, name this man, a Cardinal himself, succeessor to Cardinal Richelieu and Prime Minister to Louis X
IV.
\par ANSWER: Cardinal }{\b\ul Mazarin}{ or Giulio Raimondo Mazzarini (Mazzarino)
\par 
\par 5. Although the European Community has struggled to obtain a common currency, Hasbro Interactive has successfully replaced the old dollars, pounds, francs, and yen with a universal credi
t system in this game. An updated version of a classic Parker Brothers game, blue is now Coruscant and purple is Degobah. FTP identify this computer game narrated by C-3PO.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Star Wars Monopoly}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {6. This 1926 work is a \ldblquote multicultural\rdblquote  one: written by 
a Russian composer, the narration is in French, the singers use a Latin libretto, and the text is based on Greek myths. FTP, identify this one-act opera by Igor Stravinsky named for a famous patricide recorded by Sophocles.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Oedipus Rex}{\~or }{\b\i\ul Oedipe Roi}{\~[AY-deep rwah]
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {7. A Cambridge graduate, he worked with David Lloyd-George at the Ve
rsailles Peace Conference, but became disgusted with the meeting and resigned his post. In 1925 he opposed returning to the gold standard, and he was concerned with unemployment well before the Great Depression. FTP, identify this British opponent of }{
\i laissez-faire}{ economics.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: John Maynard }{\b\ul Keynes}{ [CANES]
\par 
\par 8. Appointed secretary of war in 1708 and treasurer of the navy in 1710, in 1712 he was convicted of corruption and imprisoned. From 1721 to 1742, he was First Lord of the Treasury and Chancellor of 
the Exchequer. Because of his political power, his use of patronage, and his ability to unite members on political issues, FTP, who is considered the first British Prime Minister?
\par ANSWER: Robert }{\b\ul Walpole}{, 1st Earl of Oxford
\par 9. David Roos of the University o
f Pennsylvania recently announced that malaria contain structures similar to these organelles. These ellipsoidal organelles contain lamellae composed of thylakoids, and stroma which contain enzymes. FTP, name these organelles where photosynthesis occurs. 

\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul chloroplast}{s [DNA: mitochondrion]
\par 
\par 10. When she was eight, she lost an eye to an errant BB fired by her brother. She went on to be valedictorian of her high school class, matriculating at Spelman College. In 1968 she published a book of poetry entitled }{\i Once}{
, but is better known for the colorful novel that earned her a 1983 Pulitzer Prize. FTP, name this author of }{\i The Color Purple}{.
\par ANSWER: Alice\~}{\b\ul Walker}{
\par 
\par 11. The methyl }{\i tert}{-butyl type of these compounds is used as an additive in gasoline to reduce emi
ssions. The diethyl version is commonly referred to by the name for the entire class. FTP, name this type of organic molecule, which, until their toxicity was shown, was used as an anesthetic.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul ether}{s
\par 
\par 12. Although this Stanford graduate has been a 
respected player for years, few men have played worse in the Super Bowl. Although his teams have competed four times for the NFL championship, they lost to the Giants, Redskins, and 49ers by an average of over 19 points. FTP identify this lucky-numbered B
ronco quarterback whose luck changed in 1998 against Green Bay.
\par ANSWER: John }{\b\ul Elway}{
\par 
\par 13. He was the leader of the Irgun, a guerilla group more militant than the Haganah. This Zionist survived a concentration camp and went on to become Israel\rquote s head of state.
 He later signed the first peace treaty between Israel and an Arab country. FTP identify this man who shared the 1978 Nobel Peace Prize with Anwar el-Sadat.
\par }\pard \ri-720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: Menachem Wolfovitch }{\b\ul Begin}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 14. Subtitled }{\i Optimism}{, its title character travels to Portugal,
 El Dorado, Surinam, Venice, and Constantinople before being reunited with Cunegonde, baron Thunder-ten-Tronckh, and Pangloss, a parody of rationalist philosopher Gottfied von Liebnitz. FTP, name this 1759 satire by Voltaire.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Candide}{
\par 
\par 15. A human head. A Virginia mansion. The initials \ldblquote F.S.\rdblquote  Liberty. The year of creation. A \ldblquote P,\rdblquote  a \ldblquote D,\rdblquote  or an \ldblquote S.\rdblquote 
 United States of America. E Pluribus Unum. FTP, all these things can be found on what coin that bears a pony-tailed profile of our third president?
\par ANSWER: Jefferson }{\b\ul nickel}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {16. His early works were calm landscapes painted in delicate grays, mauves, and dark greens. He and Dutch painter Theo van Doesburg founded }{\i De Stijl}{ magazine, in which he developed his theories of \ldblquote 
neoplasticism.\rdblquote  FTP name this painter of }{\i Fox Trot}{ and }{\i Broadway Boogie Woogie}{.
\par ANSWER: Piet }{\b\ul Mondrian
\par 
\par }{17. Jupiter\rquote s moon Europa may have all three ingredients many scientists consider essential for life: an energy source, liquid water, and organic molecules. The spacecraft }{\i Galileo}{ recently found carbon compounds on two of Jupiter\rquote 
s moons. FTP, name either of these two moons, one named for a maiden turned into a bear and the other named for the cupbearer to the gods.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Callisto}{\~or }{\b\ul Ganymede
\par }{\page 18. A Harvard-educated great-grandso
n of US Steel co-founder Henry Clay Frick, this man was elected on a promise to run his state with the same business acumen he brought to real estate. Ironically, he was recently sentenced to 30 months in prison for lying to get millions of dollars in loa
ns to shore up his collapsing real estate empire. FTP, identify this former Arizona governor.
\par ANSWER: Fife }{\b\ul Symington}{
\par 
\par 19. Loosely based on Shakespeare\rquote s }{\i Hamlet}{, this 1983 film enlisted Mel Blanc as the voice of a cartoon-watching father. It introduced the \ldblquote 3-B\rdblquote 
 rating to the world of cinema, and allowed SCTV alums Dave Thomas and Rick Moranis a start in the world of film, eh? FTP, name this film about beer, hockey, and all things Canadian.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Strange Brew}{\i : The Adventures of Bob & Doug MacKenzie}{
\par 
\par 20. His opponents claimed that he was born in Canada and hence was ineligible for the presidency, but no evidence for this has ever surfaced. FAQTP, name this first president from Vermont who replaced James Garfield in 1883.
\par ANSWER: Chester Alan }{\b\ul Arthur}{
\par 
\par 21. This 1952 play was most emphatically }{\i not}{\~
about McCarthy, said its author. Since it was actually about seventeenth century Massachusetts, perhaps he was telling the truth. FTP, name this Arthur Miller work about truth amidst a witch hunt, recently made into a movie starring Winona Ryder.
\par ANSWER: }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Crucible}{
\par 
\par 22. Its adherents believed that all principles are to be regarded as working hypotheses rather than metaphysically binding axioms. A modern expression of empiricism, it was influential in early twentieth cen
tury America. FTP, identify this philosophical movement founded by C.S. Pierce that sounds like it would be a sensible and useful doctrine.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul pragmatism}{
\par 
\par 23. It was repopulated in 1979 after being virtually emptied four years earlier.  Located in the
 south central part of its nation, it lies at the confluence of the Tonie Sap and Mekong rivers.  Connected to Bangkok and Thailand via railroad, it is known for its pagodas. FTP, identify this Cambodian capital.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Phnom Penh}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page }{\f16\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f16\fs48 ROUND 2: BONI}{\f16\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {1. For 15 points each, name the gland that secretes the following hormones.
\par a.\tab glucagon\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul pancreas}{
\par b.\tab Follicle Stimulating Hormone\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul anterior pituitary}{ gland
\par 
\par 2. Ten points each, answer these questions about the Ottoman Empire.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab Born in Macedonia, he arrived in Egypt as an Ottoman officer. By 1805 he had established himself as ruler.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Muhammad Ali}{\~Pasha
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab Inspired by German reunification, this Ottoman movement sought to shore up the polyglot empire by promoting Ottoman nationality.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: The }{\b\ul Young Turk}{s
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab The main proponent of the Young Turk ideolgy, this political body eventually established a triumviral dictatorship between 1908 and the end of World War I.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: The }{\b\ul C}{ommittee of }{\b\ul U}{nion and }{\b\ul P}{rogress or }{\b\ul Ittehad ve Terakki Cemiyeti}{
\par 
\par 3. Answer the following questions about the Roman poet Quintus Valerius Catullus, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab Give }{\i either}{ the real or the literary name of the Roman matron Catullus loved and to whom he dedicated much of his poetry.
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Clodia}{ or }{\b\ul Lesbia}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab Translate his most famous line: \ldblquote }{\i Fra-ter, a-ve at-que va-le}{.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Brother, hail and farewell}{ or }{\b\ul Brother, hail and goodbye}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab What Latin phrase translates as \ldblquote I hate and I love\rdblquote ?
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Odi et amo}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 4. 30\_20-10. Identify the mythological figure.
\par 30:\tab He was the leader of the Myrmidons during the Trojan War.
\par 20:\tab He was the son of Peleus and Thetis, and }{\i The Iliad}{ was subtitled\ldblquote }{\i The Wrath of\rdblquote  }{this man.
\par 10:\tab He was killed by a poisoned arrow shot by Paris that hit his heel, his only vulnerability.\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Achilles}{\~or }{\b\ul Akhilleus}{
\par 
\par 5. Good French movies become bad American movies. Identify these bad ripoffs, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Bridget Fonda and Dermot Mulroney starred in this dud based on }{\i La Femme Nikita.}{
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Point of No Return}{
\par b.\tab Kathy Baker is a detective in this film based on a French mystery of the same name.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Diabolique}{
\par c.\tab Richard Gere and Jodie Foster bombed in this remake of }{\i The Return of Martin Guerre.}{
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Sommersby}{
\par \page 6. Identify the element or its atomic symbol from a property, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab This alkali metal is found in a powerful reducing agent, and is an anti-depression agent.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul lithium}{\~or }{\b\ul Li}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab Three atoms of this subliming nonmetal are found in each molecule of the amino acid thyroxine, which is found in the thyroid gland.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul iodine}{ or }{\b\ul I}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab This element can exist in 9 different oxidation states\emdash yet its molecular form is highly unreactive, containing the strongest known triple bonds.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul nitrogen}{\~or }{\b\ul N}{
\par 
\par 7. Here\rquote s a question about movies }{\i and}{ books. Given an author, an actor, and the year it was written, identify the novel, 15 points each, or for 5, if you need another actor and the year of the film. 
\par a.\tab 15:\tab Helena Bonham\_Carter in a 1910 E.M. Forster novel.
\par \tab 5:\tab 1992 film starring Emma Thompson and Anthony Hopkins.
\par \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Howard\rquote s End}{
\par b.\tab 15:\tab Michelle Pfeiffer in a 1920 Edith Wharton novel.
\par \tab 5:\tab 1993 film starring Daniel Day\_Lewis and Winona Ryder.
\par \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Age of Innocence}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {8. Given a king, identify his primary court painter, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Charles IV of Spain
\par \tab ANSWER: Francisco }{\b\ul Goya
\par }{b.\tab Henry VIII of England
\par \tab ANSWER: Hans }{\b\ul Holbein the Younger}{
\par c.\tab Charles I of England
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Anthony }{\b\ul van Dyke}{
\par 
\par 9. 30-20-10. Identify the mathematician.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {30:\tab His name is given to the algorithm he developed for finding the greatest common factor of two numbers.
\par 20:\tab His rule says that the number of vertices in a polyhedron minus the number of edges plus the number of faces must always equal 2.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {10:\tab His name provides the symbol used to denote the base of the natural logarithm.
\par \tab ANSWER: Leonhard }{\b\ul Euler}{\~[oiler]
\par 
\par 10. Answer the following religious questions for ten points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab The name of the man, described in the New Testament as a murderer, revolutionary, and a notorious bandit, who the people of Jerusalem demanded to be released instead of Jesus Christ.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Barrabas}{
\par b.\tab The holiday on which Pontius Pilate customarily pardoned one criminal.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Passover}{ (Acc: }{\b Pesach }{(the Hebrew equivalent))
\par c.\tab The book of the Bible in which the release of Barrabas is related.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Mark}{
\par 
\par 11. 30-20-10. Name the author from works.
\par 30:\tab }{\i Out of the Silent Planet}{ and }{\i Surprised by Joy}{
\par 20:\tab }{\i The Magician\rquote s Nephew}{\~and }{\i Prince Caspian}{
\par 10:\tab }{\i The Screwtape Letters}{\~and }{\i The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe}{
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul C}{live Staples }{\b\ul Lewis}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 12. Given some symphony titles, identify the composer, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab The }{\i 6 London Symphonies, }{The }{\i 6 Paris Symphonies}{
\par \tab ANSWER: Franz }{\b\ul Haydn}{
\par b.\tab }{\i Haffner Symphony, Linz Symphony, Jupiter Symphony}{
\par \tab ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus }{\b\ul Mozart}{
\par c.\tab }{\i Symphony of a Thousand, Resurrection Symphony, Titan Symphony}{
\par \tab ANSWER: Gustav }{\b\ul Mahler}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {13. Answer these questions on Native American land losses, 15 points per part.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 a.\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {
Ten for one, 15 for both, name the two tribes who ceded 2,000,000 acres of land in the 1773 Treaty of Augusta.
\par }\pard \qj\li720\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Cherokee}{ and }{\b\ul Creek}{
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 b.\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {
Ten for one, 15 for both, name the US general who led the Trail of Tears, and the 1830 act that authorized it.
\par }\pard \qj\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: General Winfield }{\b\ul Scott}{ and the }{\b\ul Indian Removal Act}{ of 1830
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 14. 30\_20\_10. Give the common name.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {30:\tab In D. H. Lawrence\rquote s }{\i The Rainbow}{, this character is romantically involved with soldier Anton Skre\_ben\_sky.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {20:\tab According to an inscription at a German church, she was martyred along with 11,000 virgins.
\par 10:\tab In }{\i The Little Mermaid}{, she transformed Ariel into a woman.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Ursula}{ [prompt on \ldblquote Brangwen\rdblquote  on 30]
\par 
\par 15. Answer the following about rotational physics for the stated number of points.
\par a.\tab For 5 points, how many radians are there in a complete revolution?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 2 times pi}{ or }{\b\ul two pi}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab For 5 points each, which Greek letters are used to represent angular position, angular velocity, and angular acceleration. Identify which is which.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: position: }{\b\ul theta}{; velocity: }{\b\ul omega}{, acceleration: }{\b\ul alpha}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab The angular velocity of a body is 3 radians per second, and the radius of rotation is 5 meters. For 10 points, what is the radial acceleration in meters per second squared?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 45}{ meters per second squared [a}{\sub r}{=}{\i\f3 \'77}{\super 2}{r]
\par 
\par 16. Given a city or cities, name the river on which they are located, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Harrisburg, PA and Havre de Grace, MD\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Susquehanna}{ River
\par b. \tab Vancouver, British Columbia\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Columbia}{ River
\par c. \tab New Haven, Connecticut\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Quinnipiac}{ River
\par 
\par 17. 30-20-10. Name the artist from songs.
\par 30:\tab \ldblquote Temporary Like Achilles\rdblquote 
\par 20:\tab \ldblquote It\rquote s Alright, Ma (I\rquote m Only Bleeding)\rdblquote 
\par 10:\tab \ldblquote Like a Rolling Stone\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: Bob }{\b\ul Dylan}{ [ACC: Robert }{\b\ul Zimmerman}{]
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx7290\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\page 18. Given a set of steps or stages, identify the innovative psychologist, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab 4 stages of cognitive development, including concrete operational
\par \tab ANSWER: Jean }{\b\ul Piaget}{
\par b.\tab 5 step hierarchy of needs
\par \tab ANSWER: Abraham Harold }{\b\ul Maslow}{
\par c.\tab 8 stages of psychosocial development
\par \tab ANSWER: Eric Homburger }{\b\ul Erikson}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 19. It\rquote s time for the rap-biology conjoining bonus. For example, \ldblquote A member of NWA who died of AIDS and a common laboratory preservative that played a role in the Simpson trial,\rdblquote  is \ldblquote Easy E-D-T-A.\rdblquote 
 Fifteen points each, 5 points if only one part is given.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab The stage-name of recently murdered rapper whose ominously-titled last album was nominated for a Grammy and the abbreviation for an energy storing molecule that functions like ATP.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: The }{\b\ul Notorious B.I.G TP}{ [5 for }{\b\ul Notorious B.I.G}{\b  }{or }{\b\ul GTP}{]
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab The medical stage name of the artist behind the album }{\i The Chronic}{ and the complete medical name of Lou Gehrig\rquote s disease.
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Dr. Dre-myotrophic lateral sclerosis}{ [5 for }{\b\ul Dr. Dre}{ or }{\b\ul Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis}{] 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 20. Answer the following questions about an American Land purchase:
\par 5: \tab Within 3 years, when did the United States purchase Alaska from Russia?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 1867}{ (ACC: }{\b\ul 1864}{\endash }{\b\ul 1870}{) 
\par 10: \tab From which Russian Tsar did the US purchase Alaska?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Alexander II}{
\par 15\tab Which Secretary of State negotiated the deal and suffered for it in the press?
\par \tab ANSWER: William Henry }{\b\ul Seward}{
\par 
\par 21. Answer these questions about Maya Angelou, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Name her 1970 autobiography, the subject of claims of plagiarism.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings}{
\par b. \tab Her poem \ldblquote On the Pulse of Morning\rdblquote  was written for an occasion in what year?
\par \tab ANSWER: 19}{\b\ul 93}{\~[ACC: }{\b\ul first inauguration of President Clinton}{]
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c. \tab Name her newest book, a collection of 20 short essays on subjects ranging from aging and sexuality to African art and Clarence Thomas.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Even the Stars Look Lonesome}{
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par 22. Answer these questions about the British au pair convicted of murder, 10 each. 
\par a.\tab Name her. 
\par \tab ANSWER: Louise }{\b\ul Woodward}{
\par b.\tab Give the surname of the family Woodward worked for.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Eappen}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab Name Woodward\rquote s lawyer, who asked the judge to prevent the jury from considering manslaughter charges.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Barry }{\b\ul Scheck
\par }{
\par 23. Given the year, name the British Prime Minister for 10 points, or the King for five:
\par a.\tab 1728\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul R}{obert }{\b\ul Walpole}{\~or King }{\b\ul George II}{
\par b.\tab 1762\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Lord }{\b\ul Bute}{ [ACC: }{\b\ul John Stuart}{] or King }{\b\ul George III}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab 1789\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: William }{\b\ul Pitt the Younger}{ or King }{\b\ul George I}{
\par }{\fs24 \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1915\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VII. }{\fs24 Round X.\tab Page \chpgn  of 4
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par 
\par }}