{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f43\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0806030902050204}Impact;}
{\f74\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f75\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f77\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f78\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f79\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f332\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Impact CE;}{\f333\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Impact Cyr;}{\f335\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Impact Greek;}{\f336\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Impact Tur;}
{\f337\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Impact Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 
\additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 
footer;}{\s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator stismail}{\creatim\yr1998\mo2\dy3\hr23\min22}{\revtim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr6\min3}
{\printim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr5\min58}{\version10}{\edmins35}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2652}{\nofchars15120}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 
\fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round 3.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\lang1024 7}}}{ of }{\cs19 7
\par }{
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\f43\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 ROUND 3: TOSSUPS}{
\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\footery1030\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 
\par \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }{1. Max Euwe [U\_vuh]. Vassily Smyslov. Tigran Pestrosian. Emmanuel Lasker. Mikhail Botvinnik. Boris Spassky. Anatoly Karpov. Bobby Fischer. These men, FTP, have all held what title?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul world chess champion}{
\par 
\par 2. Frequently violated by transition metals, nonmetals larger than aluminum can violate this principle; an example is PF}{\sub 6}{. Alkali metals also routinely violate this rule. FTP,
 name this rule, which hydrogen and helium never obey, which says a stable atom has four electron pairs in its outer shell.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul octet}{ rule
\par 
\par 3. India, its land of origin, leads the world in its production. Leading US producers include Louisiana, Florida, and Hawaii, which produces the world\rquote 
s best crops; but most of it is imported from Puerto Rico and the Philippines. Brought to Europe by the Moors, by 1700 it was produced in the greatest quantities in the tropics of the Americas, especially Brazil. FTP, name this sweet plant of genus }{\i 
Saccharum}{.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul sugar}{ cane
\par 
\par 4. Though this 1906 tale of the life of the Slavic immigrant Jurgis Rudkis was initially intended as socialist propaganda, its readers focused on its portrayals of the Chicago stockyards instea
d. FTP, name this work which led new food legislation after it exposed the conditions in the meat processing industry, written by Upton Sinclair.
\par ANSWER: }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Jungle}{
\par 
\par 5. It took 124 years and a plebiscite before it was completed. Part of an 1873 agreement, 
the Strait Crossing consortium finally opened this bridge on May 30, 1997. It cost over $840 million and the jobs of 600 ferry workers. Of course, both the dollars and jobs were Canadian. FTP identify this eight mile bridge that connects New Brunswick and
 Prince Edward Island.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Confederation}{ Bridge
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {6. Traces of ancient civilization have been found on this waterway as far north as the Simla Hills, and as far south as Karachi. Inhabitants of towns on this river were literate, and developed the first s
ewer systems. FTP, name this putative cradle of civilization, home to the ancient cities of Harappa and Mohenjo-daro.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Indus}{ River
\par 
\par 7. The lyricist for }{\i Love Life}{ and }{\i On a Clear Day You Can See Foreve}{r, he won an Academy Award for his screenplay for }{\i An American in Paris}{. FTP, name this American lyricist who worked on the film }{\i Gigi}{ and the musicals }{\i 
Camelot, My Fair Lady}{, and }{\i Brigadoon}{ with his longtime partner, Frederick Lowe.
\par ANSWER: Alan Jay }{\b\ul Lerner}{\~[DNA: Frederick Lowe]
\par 
\par 8
. In the lower part of this layer of the atmosphere, temperature increases only slightly with altitude; in the upper part, however, it increases rapidly. By the time one gets to 30 miles above sea level, the temperature is the same as on the surface of th
e earth. FTP, name this part of the atmosphere that includes the ozone layer.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul stratosphere}{
\par 
\par \page 9. This author first gained attention with his story of the lives of Monterey }{\i paisanos}{ in }{\i Tortilla Flat}{. He followed this with a story about two itinerant f
armhands hoping to save enough money to buy a house, and then a book about the Joad family. FTP, name this author of }{\i Of Mice and Men}{ and }{\i The Grapes of Wrath}{.
\par ANSWER: John }{\b\ul Steinbeck}{
\par 
\par 10. This book of the bible is of unknown authorship and date, although man
y scholars assign it to a time between 600 B.C. and 400 B.C. The main part of the book is cast in poetic form and consists of conversations between the title character and three friends who come to \ldblquote comfort\rdblquote 
 him; Satan also first appears in this book. FTP, identify this biblical book, which describes the trials of \ldblquote a perfect and an upright man.\rdblquote 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Job}{
\par 
\par 11. In college, this person headed the local chapter of the Young Republicans. But after witnessing violence against Democrats in the 1960s, she became
 a Democrat. Clearly liberal, she wrote her senior thesis on poverty and community development, worked to have blacks admitted to her college, and attended Yale Law School. FTP name this renowned Arkansas lawyer.
\par ANSWER: Hillary Diane }{\b\ul Rodham}{ Clinton or }{\b\ul Hillary Clinton}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {12. WARNING: Full name required. Often called the first American psychologist, his 1930 }{\i Principles of Psychology}{
 supported ideas such as functional and pragmatic orientation. He was among the first to claim that consciousness is personal and continuous, thus defining stream\_of\_
consciousness. FTP, name this former Harvard physiology instructor and brother of author Henry James.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul William James}{
\par 
\par 13. Steam-driven generator, coolant pump, core shield, containment vessel, control rods, fuel pellets. FAQTP these are all parts of what sort of electricity-generating device?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul nuclear reactor}{ or }{\b\ul nuclear power plant}{ or }{\b\ul nuclear generator}{ [prompt if \ldblquote nuclear\rdblquote  comes up but the rest is incorrect]
\par 
\par 14. His less\_famous works include }{\i De temporum fine comedia}{ [FEE\_nay koh\_MAY\_dee\_ah], }{\i Die Kluge}{, }{\i Der Mond}{, and }{\i Antigone}{. His fame, however, rests on a trilogy of choral works. FTP, name this German composer of }{\i 
Trionfi di Aphrodite}{, }{\i Catulli Carmina}{, and the oft\_recorded }{\i Carmina Burana}{.
\par ANSWER: Carl }{\b\ul Orff}{
\par 
\par 1
5. She was sued when Congress chose to withhold highway funding from South Dakota if it did not raise its drinking age from 19 to 21. Upset with this this piece of legislation, South Dakota sued this Secretary of Transportation under Reagan who had to enf
orce the law. FTP name this woman who lost a bid to become First Lady in 1996.
\par Answer: }{\b\ul E}{lizabeth }{\b\ul Dole}{
\par 
\par 16. In 1662 Charles II granted the Connecticut colony title to all lands west to the Pacific. Except for a strip of land on Lake Erie, Connecticut gave its western lands to the American government in 1786. In 1800, the isolated strip\emdash 
over 3.5 million acres\emdash was attached to the Ohio territory. FTP name this region that lives on in the name of Cleveland university.
\par ANSWER: the }{\b\ul Western Reserve}{
\par 
\par \page 17. Written while its author was in exile, this work argued from a mechanistic view that life is simply the moti
ons of the organism and that man is by nature a selfishly individualistic animal at constant war with all other men. In a state of nature, men are equal in their self\_seeking and live out lives which are \ldblquote nasty, brutish, and short.\rdblquote 
 FTP, identify this 1651 work of Thomas Hobbes.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Leviathan}{
\par 
\par 18. With her friends Kleonike and Myrrhine she seizes the Acropolis, where Athens\rquote 
 treasury reserves are held. More effectively, she organizes the women of Greece to withhold sex from their husbands until peace is made. FTP name the title character of a 5th century B.C. comedy by Aristophanes.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Lysistrata}{
\par 
\par 19. In Roman architectu
re, it describes a large public building with an open interior space, usually with side aisles separated from the main space by rows of columns. Early Christians who wanted to avoid designing churches after Roman temples chose this building type. FTP, nam
e this title granting a church special privileges, such as reserving its high altar for a pope, cardinal, or patriarch.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul basilica}{
\par 
\par 20. In 1969, this political party divided into \ldblquote official\rdblquote  and \ldblquote provisional\rdblquote  wings; its name means \ldblquote We Ourselves\rdblquote  or \ldblquote We Alone\rdblquote 
. Under Eamon [EE-mun] de Valera, it won three-quarters of the seats in the Irish parliament in 1918. FTP, name this party linked to the Irish Republican Army, currently headed by Gerry Adams.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Sinn F\'e9in}{ the Workers\rquote  Party or }{\b\ul Sinn F\'e9in Pairti Na Noibri}{
\par 
\par 21. This form of hyperthyroidism is characterized by enlargement of the thyroid and exophthalmus [ex\_op\_thal\_mus]. This auto-immune disease is a type of goiter: stimulated by an antibody, the thyroid grows to more than twice its normal size. Th
ough this condition can cause permanent eye damage, FTP, name this disease from which, as far as we know, Jim Phelps didn\rquote t suffer.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Graves\rquote }{s\~disease [accept Peter }{\b\ul Graves}{, prompt on \ldblquote exophthalmic goiter\rdblquote ]
\par 
\par 22. Born October 15, 1881, he has more than 90 books and 20 film scripts to his credit. He also collaborated on 30 plays and comedies. He started writing public-school stories, but he first displayed his legendary wit with his 1913 work }{\i 
Something New.}{ His fame comes from his sharp stories set in Edwardian England. FTP, name the author who created Bertie Wooster and Jeeves.
\par ANSWER: Pelham Grenville }{\b\ul Wodehouse}{
\par 
\par 23. He is in prison for trying to sell cocaine to an undercover cop, but he is in bigger trouble for his exploits in Jamestown, New York, where
 he transmitted AIDS to 10 women under the age of 20. FTP, name this man who was aware of the fact that he had the virus.
\par ANSWER: Nushawn }{\b\ul Williams}{
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page }{\f43\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 ROUND 3: BONI}{\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }{1. FTP each, give the name of the famous scientist associated with the following observations or ideas.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab The frequency of a wave changes if either the source or receiver moves, allowing their relative velocity to be determined.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Christian }{\b\ul Doppler}{ [accept Doppler effect]
\par b.\tab The recessional velocity of stars is related to a constant times their distance from Earth.
\par \tab ANSWER: Edwin Powell }{\b\ul Hubble}{ [accept Hubble\rquote s Law or equivalents]
\par c.\tab Black holes emit subatomic particles, which could make them detectable.
\par \tab ANSWER: Stephen William }{\b\ul Hawking}{ [accept Hawking Radiation]
\par 
\par 2. Answer these related questions, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab This is the name of the lion in C. S. Lewis\rquote s }{\i The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe.}{
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Aslan}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab This term describes a shirt that has slanted seams on the sleeves, which are often of a different color, like many baseball shirts.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul raglan}{
\par c.\tab The computer abbreviation LAN stands for this.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul local area network}{ 
\par 
\par 3. Name these Canadian works of fiction, 10 points apiece.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab This Alice Munro novel recounts the adventures of adolescent Dell Jordan, growing up in a small town in Western Ontario.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Lives of Girls and Women}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab The title of this Margaret Laurence novel refers to the statue of the main character Hagar's deceased mother that overlooks a fictional version of the town of Neepawa, Manitoba.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Stone Angel}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab The title of this semi\_autobiographical novel refers to the protagonist\rquote s role in life. The first book in Robertson Davies\rquote  }{\i Deptford Trilogy,}{
 it chronicles the life of a private school teacher.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Fifth Business}{
\par 
\par 4. Answer these questions about supersonic travel, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Mach 1 is equal to the speed of sound. Within 5%, what is this value in }{\i miles per hour}{?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 764}{ mph [accept }{\b\ul 726 to 802}{]
\par b.\tab In what state was the first recorded supersonic travel }{\i on land}{\~recorded?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul New Mexico}{
\par c.\tab Name the driver, a Royal Air Force pilot, of the car that accomplished this feat.
\par \tab ANSWER: Andy }{\b\ul Green}{
\par 
\par 5. Answer these questions on ditches, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab This \ldblquote Big Ditch\rdblquote  was completed at a cost of $337 million under chief engineer George Washington Goethals.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Panama}{ Canal
\par b.\tab This waterway was named \ldblquote Clinton\rquote s Big Ditch\rdblquote  after one of its proponents.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Erie}{ Canal
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab A non\_navigable floodway, derided as \ldblquote Duff\rquote s Ditch,\rdblquote  has saved Winnipeg from this river\rquote s floods numerous times since it was built by Premier Duff Roblin\rquote 
s government in the 1960s.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Red}{ River Floodway
\par 
\par 6. With all the memorable Spanish and English exploration of the New World, it\rquote s easy to overlook the efforts of France. Name these explorers, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab In 1524 the French commissioned this Italian to find a Northwest Passage. He explored New York harbor, where today a bridge is named for him.\tab \tab 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Giovanni de }{\b\ul Verrazano}{
\par b.\tab In 1534 this Frenchman explored the St. Lawrence River as far as present-day Montreal.
\par \tab ANSWER: Jacques }{\b\ul Cartier}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab In 1608 this Frenchman built a fort in Quebec and explored the Maritimes and New England; the following year he explored a lake that now rests on the New York-Vermont border.\tab 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Samuel de }{\b\ul Champlain}{
\par 
\par 7. How well do you know your Coke science? Answer the following question about Coca\_Cola Classic, 15 points each.
\par a. \tab Within 10, how many calories are in a 12 ounce can of Coke?
\par \tab ANSWER: 140\~(}{\b\ul 130}{\~to }{\b\ul 150}{)
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab Within 3 percent, what percent of the recommended daily intake of carbohydrates is contained in a 12 ounce can of Coke?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: 13%\~(}{\b\ul 10%}{\~to }{\b\ul 16%}{)
\par 
\par 8. 3 B/STI. Answer these questions related to genetics.
\par a.\tab For 10 points each, give the genus and species name for the common fruit fly?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Drosophila melanogaster}{
\par b.\tab And for 10 points, linked genes do not follow what Mendelian law of inheritance?
\par \tab ANSWER: Law of }{\b\ul Independent Assortment}{ [ACC: reasonable alternatives]
\par 
\par 9. Identify these related creatures from descriptions, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab In Jewish folklore, this human effigy is animated through a magical word inscribed on its forehead or hand.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul golem}{
\par b.\tab These little, mischievous spirits of tools and machinery sabotage equipment to spite engineers.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul gremlin}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab These three daughters of Phorcys and Ceto included two immortals, Stheno and Euryale; all had live snakes for hair.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: the }{\b\ul Gorgons}{
\par 
\par 10. 10 points each. Name the country from its former Communist Leader.
\par a.\tab Nicolae Ceausescu\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Romania}{
\par b.\tab Janos Kadar\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Hungary}{
\par c.\tab Ramiz Alia\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Albania}{
\par 
\par 11. 30-20-10. Name the poet from works.
\par 30: \tab \ldblquote Heart\rquote s Rest\rdblquote , \ldblquote Come Away, Death\rdblquote 
\par 20: \tab \ldblquote The Pheonix and the Turtle\rdblquote , \ldblquote The Rape of Lucrece\rdblquote 
\par 10: \tab \ldblquote Venus and Adonis\rdblquote , \ldblquote The Sonnets\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: William }{\b\ul Shakespeare}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\page 12. Answer these questions about IQs for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Name either of the scientists credited with inventing the first IQ test in 1905.
\par \tab ANSWER: Alfred }{\b\ul Binet}{\~or Theodore }{\b\ul Simon}{
\par b.\tab The term \ldblquote IQ\rdblquote  was first coined by L. M. Terman at what California university?
\par \tab ANSWER: Amasa Leland }{\b\ul Stanford}{, Jr. University
\par c.\tab This eleven-letter term describes any non-verbal test of intelligence.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul performance}{\~test
\par 
\par 13. Given a pair of songs, name the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical on a 15-5 basis.
\par a.\tab 15: \ldblquote Out of My Dreams,\rdblquote  \ldblquote All \rquote er Nothin\rquote \rdblquote 
\par \tab 5: \ldblquote Surrey with the Fringe on Top,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Oh, What a Beautiful Morning\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Oklahoma}{
\par b.\tab 15: \ldblquote What's the use of Wond'rin,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Soliloquy\rdblquote 
\par \tab 5: \ldblquote If I Loved You,\rdblquote  \ldblquote You\rquote ll Never Walk Alone\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Carousel}{
\par 
\par 14. The Super Bowl recently occured, so answer these questions about it for the stated number of points.
\par 5:\tab How many Super Bowls have there been?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 32}{
\par 10:\tab In what stadium did Super Bowl XXXII occur?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Qualcomm}{ Stadium [not Jack Murphy anymore]
\par 15:\tab What is the name of the recently renovated San Diego airport?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Lindberg}{ Field or International Airport
\par 
\par 15. For 15 points each, name the battle with the word \ldblquote bridge\rdblquote  in its name, from a description.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab 11th century battle where Anglo\_Saxon King Harold destroyed the Viking army, also led by a Harold. The site shares its name with a Connecticut city.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Stamford Bridge}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab 4th century battle where Constantine defeated Maxentius to become the undisputed ruler of the Western Roman Empire
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Milvian Bridge}{
\par 
\par 16. 30\_20\_10. Identify the writer from clues.
\par 30:\tab He wrote the short stories }{\i Jean Beicke}{, }{\i A Face of Stone}{, and }{\i The Farmers\rquote  Daughters}{.
\par 20:\tab He wrote the long poem cycle }{\i Paterson
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {10:\tab This doctor wrote the poems \ldblquote Lighthearted William,\rdblquote  \ldblquote By the Road to the Contagious Hospital,\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Red Wheelbarrow\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: William Carlos }{\b\ul Williams}{
\par 
\par 17. For 5 points, what name is given to numbers }{\i N}{, whose factors sum to }{\i N}{?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul perfect}{ numbers
\par Five points for one, 15 for two, and 25 for three, give any three of the four smallest perfect numbers.}{\i  You have 15 seconds to begin your answer.}{
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul 6}{, }{\b\ul 28}{, }{\b\ul 496}{, }{\b\ul 8128}{
\par 
\par 18. 30-20-10. Identify the artist from works.
\par 30:\tab }{\i The Girl in White}{
\par 20:\tab }{\i Nocturne in Black and Gold: The Falling Rocket}{
\par 10:\tab }{\i Arrangement in Black and Gray No. 1: The Artist\rquote s Mother}{
\par \tab ANSWER: James Abbot McNeill }{\b\ul Whistler}{
\par 
\par 19. Name the Jules Verne novel from characters, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Passepartout [pass\_par\_too], Detective Fix, Phileas Fogg
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Around the World in 80 Days}{\~or }{\b\i\ul Autour du Monde en 80 Jours}{
\par b.\tab Professor Hardwigg, Henry, Hans
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Journey to the Center of the Earth}{ or }{\b\i\ul Voyage \'87 la centre du monde}{
\par c.\tab Cyrus Smith, Gideon Spilett, Neb, Pencroff, and Herbert Brown
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Mysterious Island}{ or }{\b\i\ul L\rquote Ile mysterieux}{
\par 
\par 20. 30-20-10. Identify the philosopher.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {30:\tab He invoked the names of Apollo and Dionysus to reflect two fundamental human impulses: Apollo as order, lawfulness, and precision, and Dionysus as change, creation, and destruction.
\par 20:\tab Two lesser known works are 1872\rquote s }{\i The Birth of Tragedy}{, and 1886\rquote s }{\i Beyond Good and Evil.}{
\par 10:\tab Apologists for Nazism seized on much of his writing as a philosophical justification for their doctrines, but most scholars judge this as a perversion of his thought.  One of his famous works is }{\i Thus Spake Zarathustra}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Friedrich }{\b\ul Nietzsche}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {21. Answer these questions on the great Peloponnesian War, for the stated amount of points.
\par }\pard\plain \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {5: \tab Which classical historian\rquote s thorough account of the conflict, }{\i History of the Peloponnesian War}{, is still the best record we have of that time period?
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Thucydides
\par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {10: \tab Which Spartan military commander brought about Athens\rquote  defeat with his naval victory at Aegospotami (}{\i ay-gos-pa-to-mai}{) and his crushing blockade of the Attican peninsula?
\line ANSWER: }{\b\ul Lysander}{
\par 15: \tab Which demagogic statesman in Athens kept his fellow citizens from accepting Sparta\rquote s peace overtures early in the war and encouraged an offensive fighting strategy before dying at the Battle of Amphipolis in 422 BC? 
\par }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Cleon}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par 22. You have 6.6 x 10 to the minus 8\~moles of nickel ions dissolved in 1 liter of water. The solubility constant, }{\i K}{\sub sp}{
, of nickel carbonate is 6.6 times 10 to the minus 9 molar. Answer the following about this system for 10 points per answer.
\par a.\tab How many moles sodium carbonate can be added without precipitation? }{\i You have 15 seconds.}{\tab ANSWER: 0}{\b\ul .1}{ mole
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab The solubility would decrease if the solution already contained some carbonate. What effect explains this?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul common ion}{ effect [prompt on \ldblquote Le Chatelier\rquote s principle\rdblquote ]
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab Common ion effects are special cases of what principle that states that equilibrium shifts to relieve stress in a system?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Le Chatelier}{\rquote s\~principle
\par 
\par 23.For ten points each, identify the album on which the following songs first appeared.
\par a.\tab \ldblquote One\rdblquote  by U2
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Achtung, Baby}{
\par b.\tab \ldblquote Zombie\rdblquote  by the Cranberries
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul No Need to Argue}{
\par c.\tab \ldblquote Invisible Sun\rdblquote  by The Police
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Ghost in the Machine}{\fs24 \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1915\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VII. }{\fs24 Round X.\tab 
Page \chpgn  of 4
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }}