{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f43\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0806030902050204}Impact;}
{\f74\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f75\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f77\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f78\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f79\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f332\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Impact CE;}{\f333\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Impact Cyr;}{\f335\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Impact Greek;}{\f336\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Impact Tur;}
{\f337\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Impact Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 
\additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext17 
footer;}{\s18\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text 2;}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator stismail}{\creatim\yr1998\mo2\dy3\hr23\min22}{\revtim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr6\min10}
{\printim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr6\min9}{\version7}{\edmins25}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2224}{\nofchars12678}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0
\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs20 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round 6.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\lang1024 7}}}{ of 7
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 ROUND 6: TOSSUPS}{
\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\footery1330\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\i\fs18 
\par \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs24 
\par }{\fs22 1. Born in Calcutta in 1861, he was knighted in 1915 for founding Santiniketan, or \ldblquote Abode of Peace\rdblquote 
. He wrote 3,000 poems, 8 novels, 40 volumes of essays and stories, and 50 plays, drawing inspiration from literary traditions of India and England. FTP, name this Indian author, who won the 1913 Nobel Prize for Literature for his collection }{\i\fs22 
Song Offerings}{\fs22 .
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: Rabindranath }{\b\fs22\ul Tagore}{\fs22  [ruh\_BIN\_druh\_naht tuh\_GOR]
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
2. His Congress party has been accused of accepting money from the Jain family by L.K. Advani, leader of the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, but Advani himself is under investigation for the same crime and seems to be convincing few voters. FTP, who is
 this troubled prime minister of India?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: Narasimha }{\b\fs22\ul Rao}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 3. This task can be accomplished using Simpson\rquote s rule, which approximates the function in question using parabolas. To obtain a less accurate result, the trapezoid rule and the midpoint rule can
 be used. But even both of these methods are more accurate than using Riemann sums. FTP identify this mathematical technique that calculates the area under a curve.
\par ANSWER: definite }{\b\fs22\ul integral}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul integration
\par }{\fs22 
\par 4. At its time the most expensive film in America
n movie history, this famous picture took a big bath at the box office despite the star power of Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton. FTP, name this 1963 film in which Taylor became the first actor to receive $1 million for a single role as she depicted t
he Egyptian title character.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Cleopatra
\par }{\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 5. Many people once travelled this recently-renamed New York City route to watch the Brooklyn Dodgers play at Ebbets Field in Queens. Then it was known as the Interboro Parkway, but it has recently been rename
d to remember the memorable Dodger who stole home in the 1955 World Series. FTP identify this parkway, named for the first African-American in Major League Baseball.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Jackie Robinson}{\fs22  Parkway
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 6. Usually occurring about 5 months into pregnancy, this 
is the medical term for the time when the mother first feels the fetus moving. FTP, what is the term that is also given to the experience Immortals have when they take another Immortal\rquote s head in the }{\i\fs22 Highlander}{\fs22  movies and series? 

\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: The }{\b\fs22\ul Quickening}{\fs22  [prompt on \ldblquote quicken\rdblquote ]
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 7. In Turkish, }{\i\fs22 ye\_di}{\fs22 . In Armenian, }{\i\fs22 ew\_t\rquote n}{\fs22 . In Arabic, }{\i\fs22 sa\rquote a\_ba}{\fs22 . In Persian, }{\i\fs22 haft}{\fs22 . In Russian }{\i\fs22 syem}{\fs22 . In Welsh, }
{\i\fs22 saith}{\fs22 . In Irish, }{\i\fs22 se\_acht}{\fs22  [SAY\_aht]. In Bengali, }{\i\fs22 sat}{\fs22 . In Swedish, }{\i\fs22 sju}{\fs22 . All of these are words, FTP, for what number, }{\i\fs22 hepta}{\fs22  in Gre
ek, the title of a Brad Pitt film, and the number of this tournament?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Seven}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 8. They have no legs, but each one has a head and }{\i\fs22 two}{\fs22  tails. They like to keep their heads in water, but their tails abhor it. In aqueous solution, they form bilayers, and
 are the primary component of mammalian cell membranes. FTP, name these molecules with hydrophilic phosphate heads and hydrophobic lipid tails. 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul phospholipid}{\fs22 s
\par \page 9. Few people have equaled this thinker's influence in politics, education, and literatu
re. He viewed education as the the drawing out of what the child already knows, and also longed for a greater closeness with nature. These views are exhibited in works such as the }{\i\fs22 Nouvelle Heloise}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Emile}{\fs22 , and the }{
\i\fs22 Confessions}{\fs22 . FTP, identify this 18th-century French philosopher, author of }{\i\fs22 The Social Contract}{\fs22 .
\par ANSWER: Jean-Jacques }{\b\fs22\ul Rousseau}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 10. Initiated in 1915 in response to an appeal by the commander of the Russian armies, during this campaign, Mustafa Kemal was hailed as the Turkish savior even though Turk
ish losses were as great as those of the British. The goal was to occupy Constantinople. FTP identify this World War I Allied campaign that was made into a film starring a very young Mel Gibson.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Gallipoli}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Dardanelles}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 11. This early 20th century art movement thrived best in cities like Z\'b8rich, New York City, and Berlin. Artists such as Marcel Duchamp, Jean Arp, Marcel Janco, and Emmy Hennings became disgusted with bourgeois values and WWI\rquote 
s carnage, and sought reality by abandoning traditional culture and aesthetic forms. FTP, identify this trend named for the French word for \ldblquote hobby\_horse\rdblquote .
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Dada}{\fs22 ism
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 12. \ldblquote The church bells all were broken.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Eight miles high and falling fast.\rdblquote  \ldblquote While we sang dirges in the dark.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Bad news on the doorstep.
\rdblquote  \ldblquote I drove my Chevy to the levy but the levy was dry.\rdblquote  These are all lines, FTP, from what song lamenting the death of Buddy Holly?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: \ldblquote Bye, Bye, Miss }{\b\fs22\ul American Pie}{\fs22 \rdblquote  by Don MacLean
\par 
\par 13. Its first performance was on January 15, 1941, in a German prison cam
p. In eight movements, it is scored for clarinet, violin, cello, and piano. FTP, name this work by Olivier Messiaen, whose name is a reference to the seventh angel, who will announce that \ldblquote there should be time no longer.\rdblquote 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Quartet for the End of Time}{\fs22  or }{\i\fs22 Le }{\b\i\fs22\ul Quattuor pour le fin de temps}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 14. Attorney General Elliot Richardson and Deputy Attorney General William D. Ruckelshaus resigned in protest when Archibald Cox, having rejected Nixon\rquote 
s offer to provide summaries of the White House audio tapes, was fired on October 20, 1973. FTP identify this horrific-sounding sequence of events that led to calls for Nixon\rquote s impeachment.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Saturday Night Massacre}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 15. In Sanskrit, it means \ldblquote the running around.\rdblquote  In Hinduism and Buddhism, it is the lot of the soul after it falls from its original self\_consciousness and bliss. }{\i\fs22 Moksha}{\fs22 
, or release from the bonds of one\rquote s }{\i\fs22 karman}{\fs22 , will break, FTP, what cycle of rebirth?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul samsara}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 16. Like Moses, legend holds this Mesopotamian king was found in a basket on the Eu
phrates. He became cupbearer to the ruler of Kish in northern Sumeria, and later defeated the king of Erech, thus conquering all of Sumeria, even though Sumerian was not his native tongue. FTP, name this king, namesake of a computer chess program, whose c
apital Akkad has never been found.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Sargon}{\fs22  of Akkad
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 17. He collaborated with his wife on }{\i\fs22 A Book of Americans}{\fs22 , a poetry collection on historical themes for schoolchildren. At his death he had only completed Book 1 of another historically themed work, 
}{\i\fs22 Western Star}{\fs22 . FTP name this man, best known for the narrative poem \ldblquote John Brown\rquote s Body\rdblquote  and the short story \ldblquote The Devil and Daniel Webster.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: Stephen Vincent }{\b\fs22\ul Benet}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 18. Son of a Maryland tobacco grower, he began his political career as a delegate in the Maryland House of Delegates. He later served as Andrew Jackson\rquote 
s Attorney General. As Supreme Court Chief Justice he supported federalism despite being a Southerner. His Southern bias, however, became clear in an 1857 ruling. FTP, name this man, famous for the }{\i\fs22 Dred Scott }{\fs22 verdict.
\par ANSWER: Roger Brooke }{\b\fs22\ul Taney}{\fs22 \~[TAW-nee]
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 19. Born in 1890 in Torquay, England, this author married archaeologist Sir Max Mallowan in 1930. Their trips to excavations in Syria and Iraq led to ideas for some of her books, such as }{\i\fs22 De
ath Comes as the End}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 Murder in Mesopotamia}{\fs22 . These excursions, though, had nothing to do with the plot of, FTP, what mystery writer\rquote s }{\i\fs22 Murder on the Orient Express}{\fs22 ?
\par ANSWER: Dame Agatha }{\b\fs22\ul Christie}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 20. The French newspaper }{\i\fs22 Le Monde}{\fs22  recently called this town of 35,000 the \ldblquote capital of total communication.\rdblquote  That\rquote 
s because it is part of the BEV project, a cooperative effort involving Bell Atlantic that hopes to make the whole town an electronic village. FTP, name this town in southwestern Virginia, over two-thirds of whose population attend Virginia Tech.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Blacksburg}{\fs22 , VA
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
21. His research led to the construction of a Soviet hydrogen bomb. Over time he abandoned his research and became a spokesman for civil rights, leading to his 1980 exile to Gorky. FTP, name this Nobel Peace Prize-winning physicist who died in 1989.

\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: Andrey Dmitriyevich }{\b\fs22\ul Sakharov}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 22. Guarani. Florin. Krone. Cruzeiro. Kwanza. Drachma. Peso. FAQTP, what are these, the most common of which are dollars and francs?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul currencies}{\fs22  (accept equivalents at your discretion)
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 23. His career began in the Spa
nish army, where he rose to the rank of captain. Known for arguing both sides of an issue, he became a national hero after repelling the 1829 Spanish attack on Mexico, where he soon became dictator. FTP name this man who\emdash 
despite his victory at the Alamo\emdash was deposed in 1839 after his defeat in Texas.
\par ANSWER: Antonio L\'f3pez de }{\b\fs22\ul Santa Anna}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 ROUND 6: BONI}{\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 1. Answer the following creatively related questions, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Louis Pasteur designed an antibody against this cattle disease.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul anthrax}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab These birds return to San Luis Capistrano every year.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul swallow}{\fs22 s
\par c.\tab In French and Spanish, this two-letter word can mean both \ldblquote neither\rdblquote  and \ldblquote nor\rdblquote .
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul ni}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 2. Given }{the corpse}{\fs22 , identify the city where he or she was assassinated for ten points each.
\par a.\tab William McKinley}{\tab \tab \tab }{\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Buffalo}{\fs22 , New York
\par b.\tab Anwar el-Sadat}{\tab \tab \tab \tab }{\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Cairo}{\fs22 , Egypt
\par c.\tab Yitzhak Rabin}{\tab \tab \tab \tab }{\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Tel Aviv}{\fs22 , Israel
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 3. Identify the play on a 15-5 basis: 15 points from a synopsis, 5 points if you need the authors.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 a. \tab 15:\tab Dionysus exacts his punishment on the town of Thebes and its young ruler Pentheus for
\par }\pard \fi720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 disbelieving his existence.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab 5:\tab Euripides
\par \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\i\fs22 The }{\b\i\fs22\ul Bacchae}{\b\fs22\ul 
\par }{\fs22 b. \tab 15:\tab A man and two women spend eternity together in a badly decorated hotel room. 
\par \tab 5:\tab Jean-Paul Sartre
\par \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul No Exit}{\b\fs22\ul  }{\fs22 or }{\b\i\fs22\ul Huis Clos}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 4. Identify the year of the following events for the stated number of points.
\par a.\tab The Peace of Paris ends the Seven Years War.\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul 1763}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab The Peace of Paris end the American Revolution\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul 1783}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab Lateran Treaty creates the Vatican City\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: 19}{\b\fs22\ul 29}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 5. Identify these terms discussed in }{\i\fs22 A Brief History of Time}{\fs22 , 10 points each.
\par a.\tab As opposed to astronomy, the study of stars, this is the study of the entire universe.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul cosmology}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 b.\tab The universe is postulated to have started in a Big Bang. Some cosmologists have proposed the future contraction of the Universe into another singularity, an event known by this name.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: the }{\b\fs22\ul Big Crunch}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab Roger Penrose proposed this theory, which he stated as \ldblquote God abhors a naked singularity.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: the }{\b\fs22\ul cosmic censorship}{\fs22 \~principle
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 6. 30-20-10. Name the playwright from works.
\par 30: \tab He wrote the play }{\i\fs22 Catiline}{\fs22  while working as an apothecary\rquote s assistant.
\par 20: \tab }{\i\fs22 The Pretenders}{\fs22  missed being staged because the Oslo Theater went bankrupt.
\par 10: \tab He achieved lasting fame for works such as }{\i\fs22 The Wild Duck}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 A Doll\rquote s House}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: Henrik }{\b\fs22\ul Ibsen}{\fs22 
\par \page 7. Answer these questions about the Greek god Apollo, for ten points each.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 a.\tab This nymph, pursued by Apollo, prayed to Gaea for aid. She was turned into a laurel tree.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Daphne}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 b.\tab Apollo gave this Trojan princess the power of prophecy. But when she spurned his advances, he changed her blessing to a curse by causing her prophecies never to be believed.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Cassandra}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 c. \tab Apollo was generally regarded as the father of this Thracia
n musician, who married the nymph Eurydice. He got the chance to regain her if he could refrain from looking at her until he had led her back to sunlight;  he failed and she vanished forever.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Orpheus}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 8. How much do you pay attention to professional hockey?
\par a.\tab For five points, identify the lucky city to receive the team once called the Hartford Whalers.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Charlotte}{\fs22 , North Carolina
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 b.\tab Four other cities will receive NHL teams before the end of the millenium\emdash some for the second time. Five points each, and 5 more for all correct, name these four cities. }{\i\fs22 
You have 10 seconds to begin your answer.}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Atlanta}{\fs22 , GA; }{\b\fs22\ul Minneapolis}{\fs22 , MN; }{\b\fs22\ul Columbus}{\fs22 , OH; }{\b\fs22\ul Nashville}{\fs22 , TN
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 [HN: If you know the story about the Charlotte mascot, feel free to tell it if time allows.]
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 9. Identify the amino acids from clues, for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab This amino acid, designated by the letter G, is the only achiral [a-KI-ral] amino acid.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul glycine}{\fs22 \~[prompt on \ldblquote Gly\rdblquote ]
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 b.\tab Containing a sulfur atom, this amino acid forms bridges between different parts of proteins; designated by the letter \ldblquote C,\rdblquote  it is responsible for curling of hair.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul cysteine}{\fs22 \~[prompt on \ldblquote Cys\rdblquote ]
\par c.\tab Designated by the letter \ldblquote P,\rdblquote  it is the only cyclic amino acid.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul proline}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 10. 30-20-10, name the Elizabethan writer based on works:
\par 30:\tab }{\i\fs22 Aracadia
\par }{\fs22 20: \tab }{\i\fs22 Defense of Poesie
\par }{\fs22 10:\tab }{\i\fs22 Astrophel and Stella
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: Sir Philip }{\b\fs22\ul Sidney}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 11. Given the president, name his secretary of state, for the stated number of points.
\par 5:\tab George Washington\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Thomas }{\b\fs22\ul Jefferson}{\fs22 
\par 10:\tab Jimmy Carter\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Cyrus }{\b\fs22\ul Vance}{\fs22 
\par 15:\tab Calvin Coolidge\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Franklin B. }{\b\fs22\ul Kellogg}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 12. For 10 points each, identify the traditional gift given on each of the following wedding anniversaries.
\par a.\tab 25th\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul silver}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab 30th  \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul pearls}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul ivory}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab 55th  \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul emeralds}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \page 13. For the stated number of points, answer these questions about the Nobel Peace Prize.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 a.\tab 10 for one, 15 for both, name the organization awarded the 1997 Peace Prize, and its coordinator.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul International Campaign to Ban Landmines}{\fs22 \~and Jody }{\b\fs22\ul Williams}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab For 5 points, on what day, the anniversary of Alfred Nobel\rquote s death, are Nobel prizes awarded?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul December 10}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab For 5 points, name the city where the Peace Prize, unlike the other Nobel awards, is awarded.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Oslo}{\fs22 , Norway
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 14. Given the rank or a description of a Black Panther, name him, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Minister of Defense\tab \tab \tab \tab }{\tab }{\fs22 ANSWER: Huey }{\b\fs22\ul Newton}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab National Chairman\tab \tab \tab \tab }{\tab }{\fs22 ANSWER: Bobby }{\b\fs22\ul Seale}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 c.\tab Minister of Information and author of }{\i\fs22 Soul on Ice}{\fs22 .}{\tab }{\fs22 ANSWER: Leroy Eldridge }{\b\fs22\ul Cleaver}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 15. Given two cities, identify the interstate that connects them. 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Memphis, TN and Nashville, TN\tab \tab ANSWER: I\_}{\b\fs22\ul 40}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab Cleveland, OH and Cincinnati, OH\tab \tab ANSWER: I\_}{\b\fs22\ul 71}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab Dallas, TX and Jackson, MS\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: I-}{\b\fs22\ul 20}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 16. Given the numerical value of a physical constant, name it for 15 points, 5 if you need units.
\par a.\tab 15:\tab 6.672 times 10 to the negative 11th
\par \tab 5:\tab meters cubed per second squared per kilogram
\par \tab \tab ANSWER: universal }{\b\fs22\ul gravitation}{\fs22 al constant [prompt on \ldblquote G\rdblquote ]
\par b.\tab 15:\tab 1.38 x 10 to the negative 23rd
\par \tab 5:\tab joules per kelvin
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Boltzmann}{\fs22 \~constant [prompt on \ldblquote k\rdblquote ]
\par 
\par 17. For the stated number of points, did each of the following composers write one or more Masses, nine or more symphonies, both, or neither?
\par 5:\tab Ludwig von Beethoven\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul both}{\fs22 \~(2 Masses)
\par 10:\tab Gabriel Faur\'e9\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER:}{\b\fs22  }{\b\fs22\ul mass}{\fs22 
\par 5:\tab Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul both}{\fs22  (41 symphonies)
\par 10:\tab Edward Elgar\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul neither}{\fs22 \~(2 symphonies)
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 18. Given a description of a philosophical school or movement, identify it for ten points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 a.\tab Founded by Zeno of Citium in Cyprus in c. 300 B.C., this philosophy built the ideal of the virtuous, rational, wise man. It held that only by putting aside passion and ind
ulgence and by performing duty with right disposition can people attain true freedom.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Stoicism}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 b.\tab This doctrine held that all knowledge is derived from experience.  It has long been the dominant theme in British philosophy; among its adherents were Locke, Berkeley, Hume, and Mill.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Empiricism}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 c.\tab This term is specifically applied to the system of August Comte;  it is the doctrine that denies any validity to speculation or metaphysics.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Positivism}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \page 19. Identify the following terms for languages, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab A language adopted by speakers of different languages as a common medium for dialogue.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul lingua franca}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 b.\tab This term describes a pidgin language that has developed its own grammar and syntax, such as Haitian French.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul creole}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab This four-letter term is used in sociolinguistics to designate a speech variety.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul lect}{\fs22 
\par 
\par VISUAL BONUS.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 20. Answer the following about the economics graph before you for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab What is the curve on the graph called?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul production possibilities}{\fs22  curve or }{\b\fs22\ul PPC}{\b\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {b.\tab This graph shows that in order to get more pizza, carne asada must be sacrificed. What economic principle does this demonstrate?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul opportunity cost}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 c.\tab All resources of this idealized two-good economy are used at points on the curve. What is the name of this waste-free set of points }{\i\fs22 on}{\fs22 \emdash not within or outside
\emdash the curve?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul frontier}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 21. Given a type of worms, identify its phylum for 10 points.
\par a.\tab segmented worms\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Annelida}{\fs22  (accept Annelids)
\par b.\tab flatworms\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Platyhelminthes}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 c.\tab beardworms\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Pogonophora}{\fs22 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 22. 30-20-10. Name the poet from works.
\par 30:\tab \ldblquote The Ballad of the Harp Weaver\rdblquote 
\par 20:\tab \ldblquote The Suicide\rdblquote 
\par 10:\tab \ldblquote Renascence\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: Edna St. Vincent }{\b\fs22\ul Millay}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 23. Five points each for the first two, and ten points each for the next two, give the names of any four of the five Spice Girls. Give names, not things like \ldblquote Baby Spice.\rdblquote  }{\i\fs22 
You have 10 seconds to begin your answer.}{\fs22 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Victoria}{\fs22  Adams, }{\b\fs22\ul Mel}{\b\fs22 anie}{\fs22  Jayne }{\b\fs22\ul C}{\fs22 hisholm, }{\b\fs22\ul Emma}{\fs22 , }{\b\fs22\ul Mel}{\b\fs22 anie}{\fs22  Jayne }{\b\fs22\ul B}{\fs22 rown, }{\b\fs22\ul Geri}{\fs22 
 [ACC: Estelle}{\b\fs22\ul Halliwell}{\fs24 \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1915\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VII. }{\fs24 Round X.\tab Page 
\chpgn  of 4
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs24 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }}