{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times;}
{\f43\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0806030902050204}Impact;}{\f69\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f70\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f72\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f73\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f74\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f327\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Impact CE;}{\f328\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Impact Cyr;}{\f330\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Impact Greek;}
{\f331\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Impact Tur;}{\f332\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Impact Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 
\snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright 
\fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\*\cs18 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext19 Body Text;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid962470614\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat3\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid105781953}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid105781953\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info
{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator stismail}{\creatim\yr1998\mo2\dy3\hr23\min22}{\revtim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr4\min14}{\version8}{\edmins22}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2460}{\nofchars14027}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws17226}{\vern71}}
\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i 
Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round 9.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 7}}}{ of }{\cs18 7}{
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\f43\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 ROUND 9: TOSSUPS}{
\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\footery1030\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 
\par \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }{1. This author was born in Greensboro, North Carolina in 1862. After a 3\_year stint in a Columbus, Ohio prison, he began writing short stories under a pseudonym; his first collection, }{\i Cabbages and Kings}{
 was published in 1904. His second collection, }{\i The Four Million}{, followed in 1906, and contained, FTP, what author's most famous short story, \ldblquote The Gift of the Magi?\rdblquote  
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul O. Henry}{ or William Sydney }{\b\ul Porter}{
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {2. Kit Carson served as his guid
e in several expeditions to the West. During the Mexican War, he was courtmartialed for insubordination and resigned even though the verdict was overturned by President Polk. He became a millionaire because of the California gold rush and became one of th
at state\rquote s first Senators.  FTP name this explorer and leader of the California Bear Flag revolt.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: John Charles }{\b\ul Fr\'e9mont}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {3. Ambrose Bierce described it as a \ldblquote mineral that gives off heat and stimulates the organ that a scientist is a fool with.\rdblquote  It wa
s Used in the early 1900s in chemotherapy and for glow-in-the-dark watch dials before its effects were known. FTP, name this element that contaminated the notebooks of Marie Curie.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul radium}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {4. This writer, who wrote \ldblquote On Cranial Nerves\rdblquote  at age 20, was forced to flee Germany because of his pro\_
revolutionary writings. He died of typhoid in 1836 at age 23, after writing three plays. FTP, name this German author of }{\i Leonce and Lena}{, }{\i Danton\rquote s Death}{, and }{\i Woyzeck}{, who shares his name with a type of funnel use
d in a chemistry laboratory.
\par ANSWER: Georg }{\b\ul B\'fcchner}{ [BYUKE\_nuhr]
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {5. Formulated in 1738, it states that total mechanical energy in a steadily flowing fluid system is constant along the streamline. Increases in the fluid\rquote s speed must therefore be matched by 
decreases in pressure. FTP, identify this principle that named after the Swiss mathematician and physicist who discovered it.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Bernoulli}{\rquote s principle
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {6. Because of a dispute over his birthplace, high schools from neighboring counties settle the issu
e with an annual football game; the winner gets to keep a bust of this president in its courthouse for the following year. A battle between the Carolinas, this game is known as the \ldblquote Old Hickory\rdblquote 
 Football Classic. FTP name this seventh president who appears on the $20 bill.
\par ANSWER: Andrew }{\b\ul Jackson}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {7. He became a major general in the Union army. During his political career, he was governor of New Mexico and Indiana. His first novel was }{\i The Fair God}{, but he is best remembered for a book about an aristocratic J
ew falsely accused of seeking to murder the Roman governor of Palestine. FTP, name this author of }{\i Ben-Hur}{.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: Lew }{\b\ul Wallace}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {8. In science, it\rquote s the derivative of acceleration, or the third derivative of position as a function of time. In cooking, it re
fers to a traditional style of barbecue found in the Caribbean, especially in Jamaica. FTP, what is this four\_letter word that describes the title character of a 1979 Steve Martin film?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul jerk}{
\par \page 9. They migrated from Siberia, reaching the Khazars by t
he 5th century, and Europe by 830. A mixture of Ugric and Turkish people and split into seven tribes, they terrorized Europe until their 955 defeat by Otto and their 1000 conversion to Christianity. FTP identify this main ethnic group of the modern nation
 whose capital is Budapest.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Magyar}{s or }{\b\ul Hungarian}{s
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {10. He is the only actor ever to have won an Emmy award for playing the same character on three different shows, earning Emmys for Best Supporting Actor, Best Guest Actor, and Best Leading Actor in 
a Comedy Series. FTP, name this actor, who on }{\i Cheers}{, }{\i Wings}{, and }{\i Frasier}{ has portrayed uptight psychiatrist Frasier Crane.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: Kelsey }{\b\ul Grammer}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {11. Daniel Webster argued he represented a \ldblquote private eleemosynary institution\rdblquote , that was protected by Article 
I, Section 10, of the US Constitution forbidding passage by states of legislation impairing contractual obligations. The Supreme Court agreed the original charter was binding, overturning the law. FTP, name this case that established the sanctity of priva
te contracts. involving an Ivy League school.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Dartmouth}{\i \~College }{\b\i\ul v. Woodward}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {12. Herbert Howells, in }{\i Hymnus Paradisi}{. Steve Reich, in }{\i Tehillim}{. Ralph Vaughan Williams, in }{\i Dona Nobis Pacem}{. John Rutter, in his }{\i Requiem}{. Igor Stravinsky, in a }{\i Symphony}{.
 All of these composers have written works setting to music, FTP, what longest book of the Bible?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: The Book of }{\b\ul Psalms}{
\par 
\par 13. He wrote music dedicated to the years 1917, 1919, and 1905, and in a symphony dedicated to Benjamin Britten set texts by Lorca, Apollinaire, and Rilke. FTP, name this composer of sixteen symphonies, the most famous being }{\i Symphony No. 10, 
\ldblquote Babi Yar.\rdblquote }{ 
\par ANSWER: Dmitri }{\b\ul Shostakovich}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {14. Fordham, Dayton, St. Joseph\rquote s, Rhode Island, Xavier. These are all members of the basketball confe
rence whose best-known members are Temple and the University of Massachusetts. FTP identify this conference named after an ocean.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Atlantic 10}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {15. While some senators have served their home states for over fifty years, the recent tenures of governo
rs have been much more limited. In fact, when the governor of this state retires later this year, he will have served longer than any other current governor\emdash only 16 years. FTP identify this home of Terry Branstad, who was dubbed \ldblquote 
the boy wonder\rdblquote  by th}{\i e Des Moines Register}{.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Iowa}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
16. Under Spanish rule for 333 years, English is an official language in this largely Catholic nation. Given that George Dewey helped Emilo Aguinaldo revolt in this area in 1898, American influence is not surprising. The Uni
ted States retained sovereignty over this land until independence was granted in 1946. FTP, name this nation where Ferdinand Marcos proclaimed martial law in 1972.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: The }{\b\ul Philippines}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {17. Reimprisoned in 1993, this man arrived in Detroit on November 16, twenty years after posting reform demands on \ldblquote Democracy Wall.\rdblquote  FTP, name this dissident recently freed on \ldblquote medical parole
\rdblquote  who may never see his native China again.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Wei}{ Jingsheng
\par \page 18. Transport vesicles budding off from the endoplasmic reticulum attach to its }{\i cis}{\~face. The proteins contained within are modified, tagged, and sorted into different types of vesicles at the }{\i trans}{\~
face. FTP, name these organelles named for their Italian discoverer.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Golgi}{\~bodies or apparatus
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {19. To this day, s
ome meeting of his followers take place in his presence, although he spends the rest of his time in a glass box at University College in London. He held that the fundamental principle of morality was to seek the greatest happiness for the greatest number 
of people. FTP identify this English predecessor of John Stuart Mill, the philosopher who founded utilitarianism.
\par ANSWER: Jeremy }{\b\ul Bentham}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {20. His poem was the libretto for Britten\rquote s }{\i Hymn to St. Cecilia. }{In 1938 he married the daughter of novelist Thomas Man
n, and emigrated from Britain to the US in 1939. During the war Christianity supplanted socialism in his thoughts, poetry and drama. FTP, name this author of \ldblquote The Shield of Achilles\rdblquote , \ldblquote The Age of Anxiety\rdblquote , and the 
\ldblquote Mus\'e9e des Beaux Arts\rdblquote , whose given name is Wystan Hugh.
\par ANSWER: Wystan Hugh }{\b\ul Auden}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {21. It was founded in 1851 by pioneers from Illinois, who settled on Alki Point and later inland on Elliott Bay. Built between two mountain ranges, many of the hills that once hindered communication were deliberate
ly washed into a bay.  FTP, name this city named for a Duwamish Indian chief, whose chief industry is aircraft production, and that is home to the first Starbuck\rquote s Coffee and grunge.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Seattle}{, Washington
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {22. It is often measured by a Brinell test, which consists of impressing a small ball or cone of a tough material on a surface and measuring the size of the resulting indentation. This property can be defined as a solid
\rquote s ability to resist surface deformation or abrasion. FTP, name this quality that is measured on the Mohs scale.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul hardness}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 23. He was a virtuoso in marble, and his works show the interplay of light, shadow, and movement. His expressive }{\i David}{ was in marked contrast to Michelangelo\rquote s. Many of his works are in St. Peter\rquote s Basilica, including the }{\i 
Chair of Saint Peter}{; he also designed the }{\i Fountain of the Four Rivers}{ in Rome. FTP, name this Baroque painter, architect, and sculptor noted for his }{\i Ecstasy of St. Theresa}{.
\par ANSWER: Gian Lorenzo }{\b\ul Bernini}{
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page }{\f43\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 ROUND 9: BONI}{\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {1. Given a description, identify the term related to policy tools of the Federal Reserve, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab This tool consists of moving money between the Treasury and circulation. Interest rates are controlled by such a change in the money supply.
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Open Market Operation}{s
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab The Fed can change this fraction, which dictates the amount of money banks can lend out based on the amount of cash the bank has.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul reserve ratio}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab The Fed can also change this number, which can allow low-interest loans to be offered to preferred bank customers
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul discount rate}{
\par 
\par 2. Babylon is fallen, and it can\rquote t get up! Identify these works related to Babylon.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab This oratorio by William Walton describes a disastrous Biblical dinner party. For 15 points, name the work, or for 10, name the king.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Belshazzar\rquote s Feast}{\~[10 for }{\b\ul Belshazzar}{]
\par }\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab This Arnold Sch\'f6nberg work takes its title from one of the Seven Wonders. For 15 points, name the work, or for 5, identify the Wonder.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Book of Hanging Gardens}{\~[5 for }{\b\ul Hanging Gardens}{]
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {3. Many surnames\emdash especially in foreign languages\emdash refer to animals. Given a surname, for 10 points, identify the animal.
\par a.\tab Poisson\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul fish}{
\par b.\tab Lowe [LOW-vuh], or in English, Loewe\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul lion}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab Medvedev\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul bear}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {4. 30\_20\_10. Name the author.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {30:\tab Perhaps Canada\rquote s best\_known short story writer, his first major success came with }{\i Dance Me Outside}{, a collection of stories about an Indian Reserve near Hobbema, Alberta. 
\par 20:\tab He would soon gain more success with }{\i Sears}{ and }{\i Born Indian}{, which told of the lives of Silas Ermineskin, Mad Etta and Frank Fence\_Post. 
\par 10:\tab His best\_known works are about baseball, including }{\i The Iowa Baseball Confederacy}{ and }{\i Shoeless Joe}{, the basis for }{\i Field of Dreams}{. 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: William Patrick }{\b\ul Kinsella}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {5. For five points each, name the top six chemicals produced, by weight, in the United States. Hint: only one of the six is organic, and the highest molecular weight is 98 atomic mass units. }{\i You have 15 seconds to 
begin your answer.}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER (in order, although order is irrelevant): }{\b\ul sulfuric acid}{ or }{\b\ul H}{\b\ul\sub 2}{\b\ul SO}{\b\ul\sub 4}{; }{\b\ul nitrogen}{ or }{\b\ul N}{\b\ul\sub 2}{; }{\b\ul oxygen}{ or }{\b\ul O}{\b\ul\sub 2}{; 
}{\b\ul ethylene}{ or }{\b\ul C}{\b\ul\sub 2}{\b\ul H}{\b\ul\sub 4}{; }{\b\ul ammonia}{ or }{\b\ul NH}{\b\ul\sub 3}{; }{\b\ul lime}{ or }{\b\ul CaO}{
\par \page 6. Identify the dinosaur from clues, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab This large, late Jurassic plant eater\rquote s most distinguishing characteristics are its dorsal plates, believed to have been used for temperature regulation.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul stegosaurus}{ [steg\_oh\_SOR\_us]
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab Probably the inspiration for the raptors of }{\i Jurassic Park}{, this animal lived in North America during the early Cretaceous; its name means \ldblquote terrible claw\rdblquote .
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul deinonychus}{\~[die\_NON\_i\_kus]
\par c.\tab This late Jurassic therapod was about 6 feet long and a light, agile hunter. It has unusually long \tab fingers, and its name means \ldblquote bird robber\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul ornitholestes}{\~[orn\_i\_tho\_les\_tees] or }{\b\ul coelurus}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {7. Answer these questions related to }{\i A Fish Called Wanda }{for 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab Which star of }{\i Wanda}{ won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his portrayal of Otto, a outrageously sadistic and stupid thief?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Kevin }{\b\ul Kline}{
\par b.\tab Kline recently appeared in what movie set in Connecticut in the 1960s?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Ice Storm}{
\par c.\tab What 1996 movie reunited the cast to }{\i A Fish Called Wanda}{, although it was not a sequel?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Fierce Creatures}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {8. Given a line of poetry, identify the poem for 15 points, or just the poet for 10.
\par a.\tab \ldblquote Leadest thou that heifer lowing at the skies,/And all her silken flanks with garlands drest?\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul \ldblquote Ode on a Grecian Urn\rdblquote }{\~[15] or John }{\b\ul Keats}{ [10]
\par b. \tab \ldblquote \lquote Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!\rquote  / Nothing beside remains.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul \ldblquote Ozymandias\rdblquote }{\~[15] or Percy Bysshe }{\b\ul Shelley}{ [10]
\par 
\par 9. Given works, identify the sculptor, for the stated number of points.
\par 5:\tab }{\i The Kiss, The Thinker}{
\par \tab ANSWER: Auguste }{\b\ul Rodin}{
\par 10: \tab }{\i Bronco Buster}{
\par \tab ANSWER: Frederick }{\b\ul Remington}{
\par 15:\tab }{\i Escorial Crucifix}{, }{\i Saltcellar of Francis I}{, }{\i Perseus}{
\par \tab ANSWER: Benvenuto }{\b\ul Cellini}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {10. Ten points each, answer these questions about the murder of Italian fashion designer Gianni Versace. 
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab For 5 points each, give the first and last names of the suspected killer, who took his own life before police could apprehend him.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Andrew Cunanan}{
\par b.\tab The murder took place at Versace\rquote s home on Ocean Drive in what Florida locale?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul South Beach}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab For ten points, name }{\i either }{Versace\rquote s older brother }{\i or }{younger sister, who are now managing his company.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Santo}{\~}{\i or}{\~}{\b\ul Donatella}{ Versace
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {11. }{\i Cop Land}{ was a flop for Sly Stallone last summer, but can you recall facts about two similar earlier flops? For the stated number of points, state whether the following things relate to }{\i Judge Dredd}{, }{\i 
Demolition Man}{, both, or neither.
\par 5:\tab [In enraged Sly Stallone voice.] \ldblquote I am da law!\rdblquote \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Judge Dredd}{
\par 5:\tab Harvey Keitel, }{\i \'fcber-}{weirdo\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul neither}{
\par 10:\tab \ldblquote The three shells\rdblquote \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Demolition Man}{
\par 10:\tab Rob Schneider, }{\i \'fcber}{ -dork\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul both}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {12. 30-20-10. Identify the state.
\par 30:\tab Spanish explorers first reached this state in 1542.
\par 20:\tab The ill-fated Donner party became lost in the mountains of this state.
\par 10:\tab This state was the site of the 1846 Bear Flag Revolt.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul California}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {13. For 10 points each, give the derivative of the following functions. }{\i You have 10 seconds for part (c).}{
\par a.\tab sine }{\i x}{\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul cos }{\b\i\ul x}{ [cosine x]
\par b.\tab }{\i x}{ cubed plus 5 times }{\i x}{\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 3}{\b\i\ul x}{\b\ul\super 2}{\b\ul  + 5}{\~[3 times }{\i x}{ squared plus 5]
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab }{\i x\~}{times the natural logarithm of }{\i x}{\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul ln }{\b\i\ul x}{\b\ul \~+ 1}{\~[natural logarithm of }{\i x}{ plus 1]
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {14. For ten points each, name these lucky recipients of Zeus\rquote s affections.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab Zeus turned into a white bull to lure her. When she mounted him, he flew to keep her from escaping.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Europa}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab In granting her a wish, Zeus revealed his true form to this woman, but his glory incinerated her mortal flesh; Zeus then rescued Dionysus from her womb.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Semele
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 c.\tab}}\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart3\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {Zeus kidnapped this boy to be his cupbearer.

\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Ganymede}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 15. Now, for the jackbooted thugs! Given the name of a secred police force, identify its nation, 10 points each. The nations need not still exist.
\par a.\tab Mossad \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Israel}{
\par b.\tab Savak\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Iran}{\tab 
\par c.\tab Stasi\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul East Germany
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {16. For the stated number of points, identify the states where you\rquote d find the following service academies.
\par 5:\tab Naval Academy\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Maryland}{\~(Annapolis)
\par 5:\tab Air Force Academy\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Colorado}{\~(Colorado Springs)
\par 10:\tab Coast Guard Academy\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Connecticut}{\~(New London)
\par 10:\tab Merchant Marine Academy\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul New York}{\~(Kings Point)
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {17. Identify these 20th century novels from their main characters, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Amory Blaine\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul This Side of Paradise}{\i  }{by F. Scott Fitzgerald
\par b.\tab Clyde Griffiths\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\i An }{\b\i\ul American Tragedy}{ by Theodore Dreiser
\par c.\tab Mitch McDeere\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul The Firm}{ by John Grisham
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {18. }{\f0 All right classics scholars, how much do you know about the Battle of Marathon? Answer these questions, 10 points each.
\par }\pard\plain \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {a.\tab Which King of Persia ordered the ill-fated campaign against Greece that culminated in the Battle of Marathon?
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Darius}{
\par }\pard\plain \s19\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 b.\tab Which courageous and cunning Athenian military genius led the outnumbered Greek forces to victory?
\par }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Miltiades}{
\par }\pard\plain \s19\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 c.\tab A bitter Peisistratid tyrant accompanied the Persian army in hope of reg
aining power in Athens. He chose Marathon for the battle because he thought it would be good cavalry terrain. Name him. 
\par }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Hippias
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 19. Given a physical quantity, give the standard SI unit, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab mass\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul kilogram}{
\par b.\tab magnetic flux density\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul tesla}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab capicitance\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul farad}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {20. Name the small country from the capital. 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Castries\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul St. Lucia}{
\par b. \tab Mal\'e9\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Maldives}{
\par c.\tab Belmopan\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Belize}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {21. Answer the following about British royalty for the stated number of points.
\par a.\tab For 10 points, who was the last of the Stuart monarchs?
\par \tab ANSWER: Queen }{\b\ul Anne}{
\par b.\tab George I could speak little English. For 10 points, what language did he speak?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul German}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab The House of Hanover has been known by two other names in the past 200 years. Five points each, name them.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: House of }{\b\ul Windsor}{, House of }{\b\ul Saxe-Coburg}{-Gotha
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {22. Identify the philosopher from a quotation for ten points each:
\par a.\tab \ldblquote Those who labor in the earth are the chosen people of God, if he ever had a chosen people...\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: Thomas }{\b\ul Jefferson}{
\par b.\tab \ldblquote \'85no one ought to harm another in his Life, Health, Liberty, or Possessions.\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: John }{\b\ul Locke}{
\par c.\tab \ldblquote Man is born free, but he is everywhere in chains.\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: Jean-Jacques }{\b\ul Rousseau}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {23. 30-20-10. Name the author from works.
\par 30:\tab }{\i The Castle}{
\par 20:\tab }{\i The Sentence}{
\par 10:\tab }{\i The Trial}{
\par \tab ANSWER: Franz }{\b\ul Kafka}{\fs24 \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1915\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VII. }{\fs24 Round X.\tab Page \chpgn 
 of 4
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }}