{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 1e30010000001803de0f}TIMES;}
{\f43\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0806030902050204}Impact;}{\f74\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f75\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f77\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f78\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f79\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f332\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Impact CE;}{\f333\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Impact Cyr;}{\f335\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Impact Greek;}
{\f336\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Impact Tur;}{\f337\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Impact Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 
\snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright 
\fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\*\cs18 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext19 Body Text;}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator stismail}{\creatim\yr1998\mo2\dy3\hr23\min22}
{\revtim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr6\min20}{\printim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr6\min18}{\version11}{\edmins33}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2524}{\nofchars14391}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i 
Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round 12.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 7}}}{ of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs18  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\cs18\lang1024 7}}}{
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\f43\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 O
CTOFINALS (ROUND 12): TOSSUPS}{\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\footery1030\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 
\par \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }{1. In }{\i Russka: A Novel of Russia}{, English novelist Edward Rutherfurd relates the history of Russia through the eyes of its inhabita
nts over the years. In his latest novel, Rutherfurd traces the history of a capital city, from Roman control to center of an empire, looking at multiple generations of six different families. FTP, name this June 1997 epic that shares its title with the ci
ty it studies.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul London}{
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {2. Born 1912 in Okemah, Oklahoma, this man was the most important American folk-singer in the first half of the 20}{\super th}{
 century. Hundreds of his compositions remain standards and his influence has spread beyond the realms of folk. He later died of Huntington\rquote s Chorea in 1967. FTP, name the artist who wrote such classics as \ldblquote Pastures of Plenty\rdblquote 
 and \ldblquote This Land is Your Land.\rdblquote 
\par ANSWER: Woodie }{\b\ul Guthrie}{
\par 
\par 3. Born in 1570, he enlisted in the Spanish army and fought in the Netherlands. He wa
s an English Roman Catholic convert, and his active opposition to the Protestant monarchy led to his execution in January, 1606. For ten points identify this leader of the November 5, 1605 Gunpowder Plot.
\par ANSWER: Guy }{\b\ul Fawkes}{
\par 
\par 4. Emile Zola outlined its goals in his essay \ldblquote The Experimental Novel.\rdblquote 
 American practitioners included Frank Norris, Stephen Crane, and Theodore Dreiser. FTP, name this movement that viewed the individual as a creature without free will, bound by scientific laws, exemplified in }{\i The Octopus.}{
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul naturalism}{
\par 
\par 5. After obtaining a Ph.D. in Copenhagen in 1911, he worked with J.J. Thomson and Ernest Rutherford. His full name has been suggested for Element 107; his last name is used to denote the most probable distance between the proton a
nd electron in hydrogen. FTP, identify this chemist, who won the 1922 Nobel Prize for his model of the atom.
\par ANSWER: Niels\~}{\b\ul Bohr}{
\par 
\par 6. First constructed in the fifteenth century, it has crenellated red brick wall and 20 towers, 19 of which have spires. Within
 its walls are an old Senate building, the white bell tower, an Amory Musuem, and an old Arsenal. FTP identify this site that is also home to the Church of the Intercession, Red Square, and the Lenin Mausoleum.
\par ANSWER: the }{\b\ul Kremlin}{
\par 
\par 7. They are famed for their dances, which feature fast-paced music and seemingly impossible leaps. In place of taxes, they supplied the Russian empire with scouts and mounted soldiers. FTP identify these aggressive warrior people of Southern Russia? 

\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Cossacks}{
\par 
\par 8. Standing
 at 5 feet 4 inches tall, this man graduated from Harvard at age 26 in 1991. He then took time off to pursue his real career. When Harvard Law School told him to choose between his career and law school he chose his budding career in professional figure s
kating. FTP, name this 1992 Olympic men\rquote s silver medal winner.
\par ANSWER: Paul Stanton }{\b\ul Wylie}{
\par 
\par \page 9. This country, with a literacy rate over 90%, leads its neighbors in televisions and doctors per capita. Its population is 38% Christian, 34% Shi\rquote 
ite, and 21% Sunni, which helps explain the civil wars it has suffered through the past 20 years.  FTP, name terrorist-ridden neighbor of Syria and Israel, with capital at Beirut.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Lebanon}{
\par 
\par 10. Generally composed of protoplasm tubes known as hyphae 
[hy-fee], which are often partitioned into septa, they were once considered part of the plant kingdom, but now are thought to have evolved separately from unpigmented flagellates. FTP, name this kingdom that obtains food by direct absorption of nutrients,
 whose study is known as mycology.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul fungi}{\~[ACC: }{\b\ul mold}{s]
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {11. Lacking one, a Florida prisoner challenged his breaking and entering conviction to the Supreme Court. In response, the Attorney General solicited states to file }{\i amicus}{ briefs. They overwhelm
ingly supported the plaintiff, Clarence Ray Gideon. FTP, what did Gideon lack in his original trial, something the Supreme Court decided was mandated by the Sixth Amendment in}{\i  Gideon v. Wainwright}{?
\par ANSWER: defense }{\b\ul attorney}{ or }{\b\ul counsel}{ or }{\b\ul lawyer}{ [ACC: equivalents]
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {12.}{\f0 
 Lasting from 960-1279, many Chinese saw this period as one of its greatest. Widespread printing of the Confucian classics brought culture to the people and populations thrived near the waterways. Pottery, poetry and painting reached new levels 
of refinement. Unfortunately, the good times couldn\rquote t last and the Mongols came in and ruined everything. FTP, name this imperial dynasty.
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\f0\ul Sung}{\f0  or }{\b\f0\ul Song}{\f0  Dynasty
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par 13. It begins with a silver plated sheet of copper. It is treated with fume
s of iodine to create silver iodide on the surface. It is then exposed before being developed by fumes of mercury. Its creator made his discovery public in 1839 and it now bears his name. FTP, identify this early type of photography.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul daguerreotype}{
\par 
\par 14. Blown every day in the month of Elul, except on the Sabbath, this instrument requires special practice in order to play properly. Designed to call all Jews to festivals, it has its most impressive moment during the morning service of Rosh Hashanah.  F
TP, name this Jewish instrument that calls all Jews to repentance, made from a ram\rquote s horn.
\par }\pard \ri-720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul shofar
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 15. The presidential campaign mudslinging has begun, with Dan Quayle publicly denouncing Al Gore for his comments about this TV show. Remembering the flak he drew for his }{\i Murphy Brown}{
 criticisms in 1992, Quayle hoped to turn popular opinion against Gore and this sitcom, which Gore praised for its revolutionary portrayal of homosexuality. FTP, name this ABC program. 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Ellen}{
\par 
\par 16. This composer of }{\i Music for Springs, Percussion, and Celesta }{and }{\i Gy-er-me-kek-nek (For Children)}{ was catapulted to fame by his 1943 }{\i Concerto for Orchestra}{. This composer of }{\i Bluebeard\rquote s Castle}{\~
died in the US just two years later. FTP, name this Hungarian composer of }{\i Mikrokosmos}{\~who shares his name with the albino bat from }{\i Anastasia.}{
\par ANSWER: Bela }{\b\ul Bart\'f3k}{
\par 
\par \page 17. This concept states that the pressure applied to an enclosed fluid is transmitted equally in all directions and to all parts of the enclosing vessel, if pressure changes 
due to the weight of the fluid can be neglected. FTP, name this law first formulated in 1647 by a French mathematician and philosopher after whom a computer programming language has been named.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Pascal}{\rquote s Law
\par 
\par 18. Though he graduated from the medical school of the University of Moscow in 1884, he is better known as a playwright and short-story writer. His works include }{\i The Seagull}{ and }{\i Uncle Vanya}{
, but he is perhaps best known for a play about the Ranevsky family. FTP, name this playwright of }{\i The Cherry Orchard}{.
\par ANSWER: Anton }{\b\ul Chekhov}{
\par 
\par 19. In linguistics, sounds caused by blocking part of the oral cavity. In science, ochre, umber, and amber. On an organ, mechanisms that control air flow. In Britain, a period. FTP, what four\_letter word describes these, as well as a red eight\_
sided sign?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul stop}{ [ACC: }{\b\ul full stop}{ or }{\b\ul stop codon}{] 
\par 
\par 20. Writing implement and paper ready! }{\i A}{ is a sphere, and }{\i B}{ is a cube inscribed in }{\i A}{. They share a center so that a diagonal of the cube is a diam
eter of the sphere. If a side of the cube is 4, FAQTP calculate the radius of the sphere. }{\i You have 15 seconds to buzz in.}{
\par ANSWER: square }{\b\ul root}{ of }{\b\ul 12}{ }{\i or}{ }{\b\ul 2}{ times the square}{\b\ul  root}{ of}{\b\ul  3}{ [ACC: equivalents]
\par 
\par }\pard \ri-720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {21. The name\rquote s the same. One was an 18th century Jewish scholar, who authored the }{\i Masoret ha\_Shas}{, or }{\i Talmud Tradition}{. The other was born in 1909 in Latvia, and examined the }{\i 
Life and Environment of Karl Marx}{. FTP, give the shared name of these two dead philosophers\emdash one recently\emdash  who also share their surname with the American composer of \ldblquote White Christmas\rdblquote . 
\par ANSWER: (Sir) Isaiah }{\b\ul Berlin}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 22. It was instituted due to a fear of the European Holy Alliance and extended by the Drago Doctrine and the Roosevelt Corollary. First posited in 1823, it asserted that, henceforth, the Americas \ldblquote 
were not to be considered as subjects for future colonization.\rdblquote  FTP identify this policy statement proffered by America\rquote s fifth president during the Era of Good Feelings?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Monroe Doctrine}{
\par  
\par 23. A leader of the Paris intellectual circle that included Hemingway and Fitzgerald, he was traumatized by his service in World War I. This author of over 70 books co-wrote two with Joseph Conrad. FTP, Name this German-born writer and editor of the }{\i 
Transatlantic Review}{, who explored sexual and psychological tensions between two couples on holiday in England in }{\i The Good Soldier}{?
\par ANSWER: Ford Madox }{\b\ul Ford}{
\par 
\par 
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page }{\f43\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 ROUND 12: BONI}{\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }{1. Answer these question on the Bauhaus, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Who founded it in 1919?
\par \tab ANSWER: Walter }{\b\ul Gropius}{
\par b.\tab In 1930, this architect became director of the Bauhaus; he moved it to Berlin in 1932.
\par \tab ANSWER: Ludwig }{\b\ul Mies van der Rohe}{
\par c.\tab This Swiss taught at the Bauhaus during the 1920s. His works include }{\i Twittering Machine}{.
\par \tab ANSWER: Paul }{\b\ul Klee}{
\par 
\par 2. How well do you know what\rquote s floating in space? Answer these questions, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab This first artificial satellite stayed in orbit for approximately 18 hours.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Sputnik}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab This female astronaut, who returned from }{\i Mir}{ in \rquote 97, holds the record for time in space by an American.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Dr. Shannon }{\b\ul Lucid}{
\par c.\tab This natural satellite is named for the Greek boatman of the dead.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Charon}{\~
\par 
\par 3. 30-20-10. Identify the term.
\par 30:\tab In reference to charge, it is replacing a subatomic particle with an anti-particle, or }{\i vice-versa}{.
\par 20:\tab It refers to the process of reversing the sign of the imaginary component of a complex number.
\par 10:\tab It is the process of choosing the proper verb tense.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul conjugation}{
\par 
\par 4. AUDIO BONUS.
\par Listen to the following excerpt from a piece you\rquote ve probably never heard before. [Play clip #1]
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab Some of the basses are \ldblquote sliding\rdblquote  over intervals, while the other basses are being played without using the bow. Ten points each, identify the two Italian terms for these
 playing styles.
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul glissando}{ and }{\b\i\ul pizzacato}{ (respectively)
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab Now, listen to this excerpt. [Play clip #2] For 10 points, what term is given to a note held out in this manner, as is frequently done on an organ?
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul pedal}{\b  }{point
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 5. Answer the following about recent events involving Apple Computer for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab What new computer line, based on the PowerPC 750 processor, was released in November 1997?
\par \tab ANSWER: Power Macintosh }{\b\ul G3}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab From what San Diego-based company did Apple license the PureVoice technology that will be part of QuickTime 3.0?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Qualcomm}{
\par c.\tab Within $3 million, what was Apple\rquote s net profit for the first quarter of fiscal year 1998?
\par \tab ANSWER:}{\b\ul  $47 million}{ [ACC: }{\b\ul $44 million to $50 million}{]
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\page 6. Identify these economic terms for 10 points each. Do not use abbreviations.
\par a.\tab This is an annual list of the costs of certain sets of goods.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul consumer price index}{ [prompt on \ldblquote CPI\rdblquote ]
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab This is the value of imports subtracted from the sum of consumer spending, investment spending, government spending, and exports.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul gross national product}{ [prompt on \ldblquote GNP\rdblquote ]
\par c.\tab This is the money generated by producing one additional unit of a good.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul marginal revenue}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 7. Identify the lobe of the brain from clues.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab The largest lobe of the brain and located in behind the forehead, its function seems to be to organize and execute other brain functions.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul frontal}{ lobe
\par b.\tab Located at the back of the head, this lobe is responsible for vision.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul occipital}{ lobe
\par c.\tab Located on the side of the brain, part of this lobe\rquote s function is hearing.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul temporal}{ lobe
\par 
\par 8. Not all autobiographies are real. Name the authors of these pseudo-autobiographies, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab }{\i The Autobiography of Malcolm X}{\tab \tab ANSWER: Alex }{\b\ul Haley}{
\par b.\tab }{\i The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas}{    \tab \tab ANSWER: Gertrude }{\b\ul Stein}{
\par c.\tab }{\i The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman}{\tab ANSWER: Ernest }{\b\ul Gaines}{
\par 
\par 9.}{\b  }{30\_20\_10, name the Russian.
\par 30:\tab Born in Yekaterinburg, he blew off two of his fingers while playing with a grenade as a child.
\par 20:\tab He became leader of the Yekaterinburg Communist Party leader in 1976.
\par 10:\tab He was Mayor of Moscow before becoming President of the Russian Republic in 1990.
\par \tab ANSWER: Boris }{\b\ul Yeltsin}{\~[HN: The Romanovs were killed in Yekaterinburg.]
\par 
\par 10. For 10 points, name the Persian author of }{\i The Rubaiyat}{\~[ROO-bye-yaht].\tab 
\par ANSWER: Omar }{\b\ul Khayyam
\par }{\i Rubaiyat}{\~is the Arabic word for the type of verse used throughout. For 10 points, what type of verse is this, named for its length?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul quatrain}{s
\par For another 10 points, name the character who tells the }{\i 1001 Arabian Nights}{, who shares her name with pieces of classical music by Ravel and Rimsky-Korsikoff.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Scheherazade}{
\par 
\par 11. 30-20-10. Identify the mythological figure.
\par 30:\tab This figure lost the battle called the Titanomachy.
\par 20:\tab With the help of his mother, Gaea, he led the Titans in the revolt against Uranus.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {10:\tab He was fated to be overthrown by one of his children, so he swallowed them all as infants, except Zeus who was hidden by his wife, Rhea; later Zeus led the Olympians in overthrowing him.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Cronus}{
\par 
\par \page 12.}{\b  }{30-20-10. Identify the British person.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {30:\tab Because of persistent ill health, in 1776 he made use of the antiquated privilege that allowed noblemen's sons to graduate from Cambridge without examination.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {20:\tab He was the son of George Grenville's sister and the First Earl of Chatham.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {10:\tab Although he had few friends and never married, he became Prime Minister in his early twenties and spent nearly half his life in that role.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: William }{\b\ul Pitt}{ the }{\b\ul Younger}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {13.}{\b\f0  }{\f0 Given the recent furors over media coverage of scandals, answer these questions on American journalism, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \s19\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 a.\tab He was acquitted in a 1735 libel suit brought by William Cosby, colonial governor of New York.
\par }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER: John Peter }{\b\ul Zenger}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab This cartoonist helped bring down Tammany Hall with cartoons such as \ldblquote Tammany Tiger Loose.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: Thomas }{\b\ul Nast}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab This publisher\rquote s tactics were labeled \ldblquote yellow journalism\rdblquote .
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: William Randolph }{\b\ul Hearst}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 14. Don\rquote t have a bad trip. Answer these questions on acids, ten points each.
\par a.\tab Who defined acids as substances that dissociate in water to release hydrogen ions (H}{\super +}{)?
\par \tab ANSWER: Svante }{\b\ul Arrhenius}{
\par b.\tab What American chemist defined acids as electron-pair acceptors?
\par \tab ANSWER: Gilbert Newton }{\b\ul Lewis}{
\par c.\tab What term describes species, like HSO}{\sub 4}{, that can act as either an acid or a base?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul amphoteric}{
\par 
\par 15. Give the next two words of these lines from }{\i The Merchant of Venice}{, 5 points per word, 15 per part.
\par a.\tab \ldblquote The quality of mercy is ...\rdblquote \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul not strained}{
\par b. \tab \ldblquote How many things by season season\rquote d are/To their right praise and ...\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul true perfection}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {16.}{\b\f0  }{\f0 Answer the following questions about the Trial of the Chicago Seven FTP apiece.
\par a. \tab The seven were indicted on charges of conspiring to incite riots in Chicago during what event?
\par }\pard \s19\fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 ANSWER: }{\b\f0\ul 1968 Democratic}{\f0  National }{\b\f0\ul Convention}{\f0  [prompt on \ldblquote Democratic Convention\rdblquote ]
\par }\pard \s19\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 b.\tab A founder of the radical Youth International Party, this \ldblquote Yippie\rdblquote  defendant eventually tu
rned away from fringe politics in the 1970s and got involved in the human-potential movement. He died of a heart attack in November 1994, two weeks after being hit by a car while jaywalking.
\par }\pard \s19\fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 ANSWER: Jerry }{\b\f0\ul Rubin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \s19\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 c.\tab This fellow \ldblquote Yippie\rdblquote  defendant was charged with selling cocaine in 1973. He got plastic surgery and moved underground. His books include }{\i\f0 Steal This Book}{
\f0  and }{\i\f0 Soon to be a Motion Picture}{\f0 . 
\par }\pard \s19\fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 ANSWER: Abbie }{\b\f0\ul Hoffman}{\f0 
\par }\pard \s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {17. 30-20-10, Name the actor from the movies.
\par 30:\tab }{\i Bringing Up Baby}{, }{\i I Was a Male War Bride}{ 
\par 20:\tab }{\i Charade, Notorious}{ 
\par 10:\tab }{\i North by Northwest}{, }{\i An Affair to Remember}{
\par \tab ANSWER: Cary }{\b\ul Grant
\par }{
\par \page 18. Ten points each, name }{\i three}{ of the Five Classics of Confucianism. }{\i You have 15 seconds to answer.}{
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul I Ching}{\~or }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Book of Changes}{; }{\b\i\ul Shu Ching}{\~or }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Book of History}{; }{\b\i\ul Shih Ching}{ or }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Book of Poetry}{; }{\b\i\ul Li Chi}{ or }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Book of Rites}{; 
}{\b\i\ul Ch\rquote un Ch\rquote iu}{\~or }{\b\i\ul Spring and Autumn Annals
\par }{
\par 19. Pop singer Elton John performed a retooled version of his 1970s hit \ldblquote Candle in the Wind\rdblquote  for the funeral of Princess Diana. For 10 points each, answer these questions.
\par a.\tab For whom was the original version of the song written?
\par \tab ANSWER: Marilyn }{\b\ul Monroe}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b. \tab Who is Elton John\rquote s longtime lyricist, who wrote the original lyrics, and then hastily rewrote them for Diana\rquote s service?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Bernie }{\b\ul Taupin}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c. \tab The song \ldblquote Candle in the Wind 1997\rdblquote  has surpassed all sales records for singles, and in doing so has overshadowed John\rquote 
s most recent album released days before. Name that album.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Big Picture
\par }{
\par 20. Given the foreign newspaper, identify the country in which it is published for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab }{\i El Mundo}{\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Spain}{
\par b.\tab }{\i O Globo}{\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Brazil}{
\par c.\tab }{\i Granma}{\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Cuba}{
\par 
\par 21. 30-20-10. Identify the author from works.
\par 30:\tab }{\i Lafcadio\rquote s Adventures}{
\par 20:\tab }{\i Strait is the Gate}{, }{\i Symphonie Pastorale}{
\par 10:\tab }{\i The Immoralist}{ and }{\i The Counterfeiters}{
\par \tab ANSWER: Andr\'e9 }{\b\ul Gide}{
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par 22. Identify the following terms about electricity and magnetism for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab This device consists of two isolated conductors carrying equal and opposite charges.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul capacitor}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab This law specifies the direction of the current induced in a closed conducting loop by a changing magnetic flux.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Lenz}{\rquote s Law
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab This is the term for an arrangement that can be used to set up a known magnetic field in a specified region.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul inductor}{
\par 
\par 23. Given an American National Park, identify the state where it is located for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Yosemite (yo-SI-mi-tee)\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul California}{
\par b.\tab Hot Springs\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Arkansas}{
\par c.\tab Wind Cave\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul South Dakota}{\fs24 \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1915\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VII. }
{\fs24 Round X.\tab Page \chpgn  of 4
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }}