{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 1e30010000001803de0f}TIMES;}
{\f43\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0806030902050204}Impact;}{\f74\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f75\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f77\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f78\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f79\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f332\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Impact CE;}{\f333\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Impact Cyr;}{\f335\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Impact Greek;}
{\f336\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Impact Tur;}{\f337\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Impact Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 
\snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright 
\fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\*\cs18 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext19 Body Text;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1704615630\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid658071068}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid658071068\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info
{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator stismail}{\creatim\yr1998\mo2\dy3\hr23\min22}{\revtim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr6\min23}{\version11}{\edmins49}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords2698}{\nofchars15384}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern71}}
\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i 
Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round 15.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 3}}}{ of }{\cs18 8}{
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\f43\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 
FINALS (ROUND 15): TOSSUPS}{\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\footery1030\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 
\par \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {
1. Although United States Senators are typically gregarious, they cannot talk forever. A petition signed by 16 senators can initiate action under this procedure which, if approved by 60 senators, ends debate on the issue 
at stake. FTP, identify this parliamentary technique that allows a legislative body to bring a matter under consideration to a vote.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul cloture}{ or }{\b\ul closure}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 2. O/SS. A marketplace in China, a factory in Soviet Russia, a bar in Spain, an American air ba
se, a club in Las Vegas, a temple in Thailand, a dock in New England, a village in Brazil. FTP, these are all locales in what 1991 Capcom arcade smash, re-released in Championship and Super editions?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Street Fighter II}{
\par 
\par 3. Developed by Portuguese su
rgeon Egaz Moniz in 1935, who won the 1949 Nobel Prize for it, it was modified by American neurologist Walter Freeman. Using a small mallet, Freeman would drive an ice pick through the eye socket, then move it up and down and side to side, destroying mass
ive amounts of brain tissue. FTP, name this procedure that Freeman last performed in 1967.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul lobotomy}{
\par 
\par 4. John Adams felt that his successor, Thomas Jefferson, was \ldblquote putting on airs by serving such novelties\rdblquote  a
s these items to White House guests. Times have changed, however, and an ubiquitous American restaurant cooks over 300 pounds of them each day. Ironically, inhabitants of Paris would call them \ldblquote fried apples.\rdblquote 
 FTP, identify these greasy taste treats that are available in curly and shoestring varieties.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul french fries}{
\par 
\par 5. Later a patriot militia, it was formed in 1770 to combat a New York sheriff\rquote s party that came to evict local residents who had received land grants from New Hampshire. They later made 
significant contributions to the Revolutionary War effort, such as the capture of Fort Ticonderoga in May 1775. FTP name this Vermont military group led by Ethan Allen. 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Green Mountain Boys}{
\par 
\par 6. A lover of outdoor sports, he is repelled by sexual pa
ssion. Just before his mother dies, she accuses him of rape. As if he did not have enough problems, his father put a curse on him. After his death, Artemis proves his innocence. FTP, identify this character of dramas by Jean Racine and Euripides, son of T
heseus and Phaedra.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Hippolytus}{\~[ACC: }{\b\ul Hippolyte}{]
\par 
\par 7. During World War I, Sommerset Maugham was enlisted by the British government to try to secure the support of this man\rquote s government. He planned the disastrous June Offensive of 1917, but was still e
lected Prime Minister when the provisional government reorganized in July. FTP identify this Russian leader who, in October of the same year, was forced from power by the Bolsheviks.
\par ANSWER: Alexandr Fyodorovich }{\b\ul Kerensky}{
\par 
\par 8. For uranium it is 18.95, aluminum, 2.7, chlorine gas, .0032. It varies for different temperatures, and is generally reported at 293 degrees Kelvin. For water }{\i below}{
 freezing, it is .92, and at 20 degrees Celsius, 1.0. FTP what is this quantity expressed in terms of mass over volume? 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul density}{\~or }{\b\ul specific gravity}{
\par \page 9. His last sacred work was 1915\rquote s }{\i Vespers}{,\~and his final work was his }{\i Symphonic Dances}{. The }{\i Dies irae}{ melody is quoted often in this Russian composer\rquote s works, such as the }{\i Paganini Rhapsody}{
. FTP, name this composer, who died in Hollywood in 1943, whose }{\i Piano Concerto No. 3}{\~drove David Helfgott to madness.
\par ANSWER: Sergei Vasilyevich }{\b\ul Rachmaninoff}{
\par 
\par 10. Allegedly the son of Talleyrand, he was especially interested in the writings of Lord Byron. He painted }{\i The Execution of Marino Faliero}{ and }{\i The Death of Sardanapalus}{
, which were both based on Byron themes. FTP name this French Romantic, the painter of }{\i Liberty Leading the People}{.
\par ANSWER: Eugene }{\b\ul Delacroix}{
\par 
\par 11. It is an irregular quadrilateral in shape, and its greatest depth is 270
 feet. Its waters fill a shallow depression in the center of the great plateau that stretches between the Western and Eastern Rift Valleys. The second-largest freshwater lake in the world, John Speke gave it a royal name when he sighted it in 1858. FTP id
entify this source of the Nile River.
\par ANSWER: Lake }{\b\ul Victoria}{ 
\par 
\par 12. In the world of the idle rich on the French Riviera, a psychiatrist marries one of his patients. As she slowly recovers, he loses his vitality until the author calls him }{\i un homme e-pui-s\'e9}{, or \ldblquote a man used up.\rdblquote 
 This is the plot, FTP, of what 1934 novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Tender Is the Night}{
\par 
\par 13. Learning of the overthrow of the Medes in 549, he\~attacked Persia in 547, and was defeated by Cyrus. He made large gifts to the temple 
at Delphi, spreading his fame as a symbol of wealth. FTP name this last king of Lydia who was misled by a prophecy that he would destroy a great kingdom.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Croesus}{
\par 
\par 14. They are described by the Henderson-Hasselbach equation. One can be formed using hydrogen phosphate with phsophate }{\i or}{
 with hydrogen phosphate; in the blood, the main one uses carbonic acid. FTP, name these solutions of weak acids and conjugate bases, used to keep pH levels stable.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul buffer}{ed solutions [prompt on \ldblquote acid-base pair\rdblquote ]
\par 
\par 15. This philosophical movement is based on the use of reason to deepen the understanding of what is believed, and to give a rational content to faith. It dominated virt
ually an entire millennium, and peaked during the 13th century. FTP, identify this philosophy of Western Christendom in the Middle Ages, whose most famous spokesman was Thomas Aquinas.
\par }\pard \ri-720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul scholasticism
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 16. Born in Dublin in 1854, this author showed early promise, winning the Berkeley Gold Medal for Greek at Trinity College and the Newdigate Prize for his poem \ldblquote Ravenna\rdblquote 
 at Magdalen [MAW-dlin] College, Oxford. By the 1890s he was one of London\rquote s most important playwrights. FTP, name this author of }{\i Lady Windemere\rquote s Fan}{, }{\i A Woman of No Importance}{, and }{\i The Importance of Being Earnest}{.

\par ANSWER: Oscar }{\b\ul Wilde}{
\par 
\par 17. When Lex Cusack was searching through his father's belongings, he found papers allegedly belonging to this man, which ABC News recently reported to be forgeries. In fact, one dated in 1961 had ZIP codes that weren\rquote 
t used until 1963. FTP, name the purported author of these papers, which claimed that he made payments to Marilyn Monroe to keep their affair a secret.
\par ANSWER: John Fitzgerald }{\b\ul Kennedy}{, Sr.
\par 
\par \page 18
. Born in Suffolk, England and the cousin of a famous scientist and philosopher, he lived at Curl's Neck on the James River in Virginia. An expansionist, in 1676 he led an unauthorized expedition against Native Americans in the colony. After Governor Will
iam Berkeley denounced his actions, he burned down Jamestown and quickly gained control of most of the colony. FTP identify this American rebel.
\par ANSWER: Nathaniel }{\b\ul Bacon
\par }{
\par 19. Medieval Arabs attributed these to a phantom planet named }{\i al-Tinneen}{, \ldblquote the Dragon.\rdblquote  They occur in a regular series called the }{\i saros}{
 period, and there are between two and seven of these events per year. FTP, name this astronomical phenomenon, found in total and partial forms, which occurs when the sun, Earth, and moon are aligned.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul eclipse}{
\par 
\par 20. The number of gallons in a US barrel of oil. The number of capsomeres covering the outer surface of a pa-po-a-virus. Both of these are the same two digit number. It is also the latitude that marked the northern boundary of the area the US pur
chased from Spain in the Adams\_Onis treaty. FTP, identify the answer to life, the universe, and everything, according to Douglas Adams.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul 42}{
\par 
\par 21. Like the Bible, it has been published in several languages besides English. Also like the Bible, it is p
urported to be the Word of God passed on through divine inspiration of a prophet. Unlike the bible, however, the original version was supposedly found on golden plates near the home of Joseph Smith, and reclaimed by an angel after Smith translated them in
to English. FTP, name this work, the chief text of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter\_Day Saints.
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\ul Book of Mormon
\par }{
\par 22. }{\i Catherine Was Great, Diamond Lil, The Constant Sinner, The Drag, }{and}{\i  The Pleasure Man}{ were all authored by this woman who co-starred with Marlon Brando in }{\i Pal Joey}{ and Elvis Presley in }{\i Roustabout}{
. She is better known, though, for her risqu\'e9 1930s films, such as }{\i She Done Him Wrong }{and }{\i I\rquote m No Angel.}{ FTP, go in the right direction, young man, and name this movie star.
\par ANSWER: Mae }{\b\ul West}{
\par 
\par 23. After winning both the Booker Prize and a Pulitzer Prize for her work, she was named Chancellor of the University of Winnipeg in 1996. FTP, who is this woman whose 1993 novel }{\i The Stone Diaries}{ won much domestic and international acclaim?
\par ANSWER: Carol }{\b\ul Shields}{
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page }{\f43\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 FINALS (ROUND 15): BONI}{\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }{1. Identify the element or its atomic symbol from a property, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab This alkali metal is found in a powerful reducing agent, and is an anti-depression agent.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul lithium}{\~or }{\b\ul Li}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab Three atoms of this subliming nonmetal are found in each molecule of the amino acid thyroxine, which is found in the thyroid gland.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul iodine}{ or }{\b\ul I}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab This element can exist in 9 different oxidation states\emdash yet its molecular form is highly unreactive, containing the strongest known triple bonds.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul nitrogen}{\~or }{\b\ul N}{
\par 
\par VISUAL BONUS.
\par 2. Answer these questions on World War II bombings, 10 points each.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 a.\tab}}\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {As a prisoner of war, Kurt Vonnegut witnessed this city\rquote 
s firebombing, an event he recalls in }{\i Slaughterhouse-Five.}{
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Dresden}{, Germany
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 b.\tab}}\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {Only the spires of St. Michael\rquote 
s Cathedral and the Grey Friars\rquote  Church in this British town survived the air raids of November 1940 and April 1941.
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Coventry}{, England
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 c.\tab}}\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {
The bell tower of the Ma-ri-en-kir-che in this German city was destroyed in 1944; the bells, shown in this picture, remain where they fell.
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul L\'fcbeck}{, Germany
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {3. Given the role, name the Yale actor for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Aaron and Roy in }{\i Primal Fear}{
\par \tab ANSWER: Edward }{\b\ul Norton}{
\par b.\tab Tina Turner in }{\i What\rquote s Love Got To Do With It?}{
\par \tab ANSWER: Angela }{\b\ul Bassett}{
\par c.\tab Pollux Troy in }{\i Face/Off
\par }{\tab ANSWER: Alessandro }{\b\ul Nivola}{
\par 
\par 4. AUDIO BONUS.
\par Given an excerpt of an instrumental solo, for 10 points, identify the instrument being played, the composer of the work, }{\i or}{\~the title of the work.
\par a.\tab [Clip #1]
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul clarinet}{ from }{\b\i\ul Rhapsody in Blue}{\~by George }{\b\ul Gershwin}{
\par b.\tab [Clip #2]
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul bassoon}{ from }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Rite of Spring}{ [ACC:}{\b\i\ul  Le Sacre du printemps}{] by Igor }{\b\ul Stravinsky}{
\par c.\tab [Clip #3]
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul cor anglais}{\~or }{\b\ul English horn}{\~from }{\b\i\ul Sancta civitas}{\~by Ralph }{\b\ul Vaughan Williams}{
\par 
\par 5.}{\b  }{Given a country, name its last colonial master, for the stated number of points.
\par 5:\tab Indonesia\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: The }{\b\ul Netherlands}{
\par 5:\tab Guyana\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Britain}{
\par 10:\tab Namibia\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul South Africa}{
\par 10:\tab Cuba\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul U}{nited }{\b\ul S}{tates
\par 
\par VISUAL BONUS.
\par 6. Given a picture of a sculpture on the Yale campus, identify its creator for 10 points. If you need a more famous work, you\rquote ll get only 5 points.
\par a.\tab 10:\tab [Woolsey picture]
\par \tab 5:\tab }{\i Universe}{ at the Sears Tower\tab \tab ANSWER: Alexander Stirling }{\b\ul Calder}{
\par b.\tab 10:\tab [Morse picture]
\par \tab 5:\tab }{\i Giant Soft Fan}{\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Claes Thure }{\b\ul Oldenburg}{
\par c.\tab 10:\tab [science hill picture]
\par \tab 5:\tab various paintings of enlarged cartoon characters
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Roy }{\b\ul Lichtenstein}{
\par 
\par 7. Answer these related questions for 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab What was the aesthetically satisfying ratio that Renaissance mathematician Lucas Pacioli defined as the division of a line so that the shorter part is to the longer as the longer is to the whole.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul golden mean}{\~or }{\b\ul golden ratio}{ or }{\b\ul golden number}{ or }{\b\ul golden section}{
\par b.\tab Within 0.01, what is the golden mean, expressed as a ratio of longer to shorter?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 1.618}{\~[ACC: }{\b\ul 1.608}{\~to }{\b\ul 1.628}{]
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab }{\i The Golden Mean}{\~is the final book in a trilogy that begins with }{\i Griffin & Sabine}{. What Canadian authored these books?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Nick }{\b\ul Bantock}{
\par 
\par 8. 30-20-10. Identify the common name.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {30:\tab In Mark Twain\rquote s \ldblquote The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County,\rdblquote  it is the name of miner Jim Smiley\rquote 
s champion jumper, who loses after quail shot is poured down his throat.
\par 20:\tab In Stephen Vincent Benet\rquote s short story he is the attorney whose oratorical eloquence before a jury of demons saves Jabez Stone from losing his soul to the devil.
\par 10:\tab Historically, this greedy Massachusetts Senator was known as a champion of nationalism over state sovereignty. He argued for \ldblquote Liberty and Union, now and forever, one and inseparable!\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Daniel Webster}{\~[prompt on \ldblquote Webster\rdblquote ; the frog is actually \ldblquote Dan\rquote l\rdblquote  Webster]
\par 
\par 9. Answer these questions about Prometheus for ten points each.
\par a.\tab When Zeus mistreated man, Prometheus stole this from the gods and gave it to man.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul fire}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab In another legend Prometheus saved the human race from extinction by warning this man, his son, about a great flood.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Deucalion}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab Prometheus is the subject of many literary works; perhaps the most famous is the play }{\i Prometheus Bound}{ by this Greek playwright.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Aeschylus}{
\par 
\par VISUAL BONUS.
\par 10. A frictionless pulley is at the top of a rough inclined plane. Assume that acceleration due to gravity is negative 10 meters per second per second and that the blocks are not moving. The plane i
s 30 degrees from horizontal, and each block has a mass of 10 kilograms. Answer the following for the stated number of points.
\par 10:\tab What force keeps the block on the plane from rising up the plane?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul friction}{
\par 15:\tab What is the of frictional force, in newtons, necessary to keep the blocks stationary.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 50}{ newtons
\par 5:\tab What is the coefficient of static friction for the plane?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul one-half}{ or 0}{\b\ul .5
\par }{11. Answer these questions about the Teamsters\rquote  Union, for 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab With what company did the Teamsters\rquote  Union settle in September a two\_week strike over temporary employees?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul U}{nited }{\b\ul P}{arcel }{\b\ul S}{ervice
\par b.\tab Name the leader of the Teamsters\rquote  Union whose 1996 election was recently invalidated.
\par \tab ANSWER: Ronald }{\b\ul Carey}{
\par c.\tab Name the Federal election overseer who invalidated Carey\rquote s election.
\par \tab ANSWER: Barbara Zack }{\b\ul Quindel
\par }{
\par 12. Identify the following which are indirectly related to }{\i South Park}{, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab Known as \ldblquote the Man,\rdblquote  he won seven National League batting championships in his 22-year career with the St. Louis Cardinals.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Stan}{ley Frank }{\b\ul Musial}{
\par b. \tab This actor appeared in }{\i The Trigger Effect}{, }{\i The Flintstones}{, }{\i Showgirls}{, and }{\i Twin Peaks}{.
\par \tab ANSWER:\~}{\b\ul Kyle MacLachlan}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab This jazz musician set the record for the longest note in December 1997 by holding an E flat on a saxophone for 45 minutes and 47 seconds.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Kenny\~G}{
\par 
\par 13. Name the US river from its start and end points,.10 points each.
\par a.\tab Grizzly Creek in Jackson County, Colorado to the Missouri River south of Omaha.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Platte}{ River
\par b.\tab Schoharie County, New York to Liston Point, Delaware Bay.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Delaware}{ River
\par c.\tab Park County, Wyoming to the Missouri River in North Dakota.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Yellowstone}{ River
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {14. Answer the following about microeconomics, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab The law of demand dictates that what sort of relationship exists between price and demand?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul inverse}{ (one goes up, the other goes down)
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab What is the term for items that are used in place of another good. For example, a Mercedes automobile may be this sort of good in relation to BMW cars.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul substitute}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab What is the term for goods that are bought only because they are cheap. In income goes down, demand for this sort of good will increase.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul inferior}{ good
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {15.}{\b  }{Answer these questions on Geraldine Ferraro\rquote s old running mate, Walter Mondale, for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab In what state was Mondale born?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Minnesota}{
\par b.\tab In the 1984 election, besides Minnesota, where did Mondale earn his 3 other electoral votes?
\par \tab ANSWER: the }{\b\ul District of Columbia}{
\par c.\tab Mondale filled the Senate seat of this Minnesotan Vice-President under Lyndon B. Johnson.
\par \tab ANSWER: Hubert Horatio }{\b\ul Humphrey}{
\par 
\par 16. Ten points each, given the philosopher, name the school of thought to which he belongs.
\par a.\tab Protagoras\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Sophism}{ or }{\b\ul Sophists}{ [ACC: }{\b\ul Sophistry}{]
\par b.\tab Diogenes\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Cynic}{ism
\par c.     \tab Plotinus\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Neo-Platonism}{\ul 
\par }{\page 17. Answer these questions about Isabelle Allende, for the stated number of points.
\par 5:\tab Allende\rquote s uncle Salvador was president of what country?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Chile}{
\par }\pard\plain \s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 10:\tab In what novel did she dramatize her uncle\rquote s overthrow?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\tab ANSWER: }{\i The }{\b\i\ul House of The Spirits}{\i  or La }{\b\i\ul Casa De Los Esperitus}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {15:\tab Name her latest book, part memoir, part autobiography, written for and named after her comatose daughter. 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Paula}{
\par 
\par 18. Writing implement and paper ready! Consider the quartic equation }{\i x}{ to the fourth minus 10 times }{\i x}{ cubed plus 35 times }{\i x}{ squared minus 50 times }{\i x}{ plus 24 equals 0. Ten points each, find any }{\i three}{
 of its four real roots. }{\i You have }{\b\i 30 seconds}{\i  to begin your answer.}{
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul 1}{, }{\b\ul 2}{, }{\b\ul 3}{, and }{\b\ul 4}{
\par [sum of roots = +10, product = +24; 1 must be a root as sum of coefficients = 0.]
\par 
\par AUDIO BONUS.
\par 19. For 10 points, identify the composer of this song, written in 1941. [Play clip #1]
\par ANSWER: Glenn }{\b\ul Miller}{
\par For another 10 points, this is the song of boatmen on what long European river?
\par ANSWER: }{\i Song of the }{\b\i\ul Volga}{\i \~Boatmen}{
\par For a final 10 points, identify the following song from an excerpt. [Play clip #2]
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul In the Mood}{
\par 
\par 20. Answer these questions about }{\i Pilgrim\rquote s Progress}{, for the stated number of points.
\par 5:\tab Name the author.
\par \tab ANSWER: John }{\b\ul Bunyan}{
\par 10:\tab What is the name of the Pilgrim who makes the journey?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Christian}{
\par 15:\tab Christian is originally accompanied by Faithful. But Faithful is put to death in what place?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Vanity Fair}{
\par 
\par 21. Answer these questions about recent developments in drug resistance, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab In September, researchers here at Yale found a method of inducing drug resistance in bacteria by inserting copies of what type of nucleic acid into the cells?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul messenger RNA}{\~or }{\b\ul mRNA}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab In September, researchers in Japan found bacteria resistant to all known antibiotics. For 10 points, what infamous disease did these bacteria cause?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul bubonic}{\~plague [prompt on \ldblquote plague\rdblquote  or \ldblquote Black Death\rdblquote ]
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab Name the complex antibiotic produced in }{\i Streptomyces orientalis}{ that is used only as a \ldblquote last resort\rdblquote  in treating infections.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul vancomycin}{
\par 
\par 22.}{\b  }{30-20-10. Identify the Pope.
\par 30:\tab He is the author of }{\i Morals from the Book of Job}{ and he reigned from 590-604.
\par 20:\tab He composed music and establish a school of music at which he taught.
\par 10:\tab He is known as \ldblquote the Great\rdblquote  and he is most famous for his chants.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Gregory I}{ [ACC: }{\b\ul Gregory the Great}{ on 20 or 30]
\par \page 23. Name the authors of these similarly titled works, for 15, or from more famous novels for 5.
\par a.\tab 15:\tab }{\i The Lady of the Lake}{
\par \tab 5:\tab }{\i Ivanhoe}{
\par \tab ANSWER: Sir Walter }{\b\ul Scott}{
\par b.\tab 15: \tab }{\i The Portrait of a Lady}{
\par \tab 5:\tab }{\i The Turn of the Screw}{
\par \tab ANSWER: Henry }{\b\ul James}{
\par }{\fs24 \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1915\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VII. }{\fs24 Round X.\tab Page \chpgn  of 4
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }}