{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 1e30010000001803de0f}TIMES;}
{\f43\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0806030902050204}Impact;}{\f74\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f75\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f77\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f78\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f79\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f332\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Impact CE;}{\f333\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Impact Cyr;}{\f335\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Impact Greek;}
{\f336\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Impact Tur;}{\f337\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Impact Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 
\snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright 
\fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\*\cs18 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext19 Body Text;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1957985054\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-780\li780\jclisttab\tx780 }{\listname ;}\listid674310047}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid674310047\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info
{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator stismail}{\creatim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr5\min4}{\revtim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr6\min20}{\printim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr5\min5}{\version5}{\edmins9}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2555}{\nofchars14566}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws0}
{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i 
Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Quarterfinals.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 2}}}{ of }{\cs18 7}{
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\f43\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 
QUARTERFINALS (ROUND 13): TOSSUPS}{\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\footery1030\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 
\par \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }{1. A new species of this family was discovered in 1993 in a Vietnamese reserve. These mammals have unbranched, hollow horns that grow throughout life and are never shed. Typically nomadic, most members run swiftly; 
North American species include the bison and musk-ox. FTP, name this family that includes sheep, goats, and cows.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Bovidae}{\~or }{\b\ul bovines}{
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {2. His villa at Strawberry Hill was noted for its architecture, art collection, and printing press. He wrote about art history in his }{\i Anecdotes of Painting in England}{
, but is better known for the first Gothic novel, }{\i The Castle of O-tran-to}{. FTP, name this author and son of a British Prime Minister.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Horace Walpole}{, 4th Earl of Oxford
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {3. Pog\_gen\_dorff. Zoell\_ner. Hering. Ponzo. Mueller\_
Lyer. The Koenig necklace. The Necker cube. These are all examples of, FTP, what Gestalt tricks where the normal processing of visual stimuli cause the brain to perceive something false as true?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul optical illusion}{s or }{\b\ul visual illusion}{s
\par 
\par 4. Unlike most cities, it experienced two springs in 1968. One saw the winter end, but the more horrific one led to the capture of Alexander Dubcek a
nd the permanent presence of Soviet troops. FTP identify this city that Warsaw Pact forces invaded in an effort to thwart the growing democratic reform movement in the capital of Czechoslovakia.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Prague}{
\par 
\par 5. This compound\rquote s molecular weight varies between 700 and 900, depending on its form. It can be used as an anti\_knocking agent in gasoline, and as a developing agent in photography. FTP, name this compound, which occurs in }{\i a}{, }{\i b}{, }{
\i c}{, and }{\i e}{ varieties, that contains a magnesium ion, and is the central photosynthetic pigment.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul chlorophyll}{
\par 
\par 6. This composer of }{\i Prague Carnival}{ began losing his hearing and balance because of syphilis. Late in life, his memory and intellectual capacities began to deteriorate; in 1884, he became so violent he was taken to Prague\rquote 
s lunatic asylum, where he died that year. FTP, name this Bohemian composer who wrote }{\i From My Life}{,}{\i  The Bartered Bride}{, and }{\i The Moldau.}{
\par ANSWER: Bedrich }{\b\ul Smetana}{
\par 
\par 7. Benjamin Brewster. Harlan Stone. Francis Biddle. Robert Kennedy. Edwin Meese. But none of these men were responsible for the massacre at Waco. FAQTP, what cabinet post did these men hold, currently filled by somewhat manly woman, Janet Reno?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Attorney General}{\~of the United States
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {8. }{\f0 This current NBA coach came to Yale his freshm
an year with three objectives: to date fellow freshman Jodi Foster, to make the varsity basketball team, and to tunnel his way into Skull and Bones. He failed in all three quests and transferred to a junior college. FTP identify this coach who supervises 
Patrick Ewing and the New York Knicks.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER: Jeff Van }{\b\ul Gundy}{
\par \page 9. North Carolina author Charles Frazier has made headlines with this book, his first novel. It tells the story of Inman, a Confederate deserter who journeys 300 miles home to his lost love, Ada. Anthony Minghella, the director of }{\i 
The English Patient}{, has agreed to develop a movie from it. FTP name this Civil War love story that was #1 on the bestseller list for several weeks in 1997.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Cold Mountain}{
\par 
\par 10. Writing implement and paper ready! The lengths of two sides of a triangle are 6 and 8. The angle between these two sides is 30 degrees. FAQTP, what is the area of this triangle in square units? }{\i You have 10 seconds to buzz in}{.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul 12}{ square units
\par 
\par 11. It can describe a second-order differential equation that is equal to zero; it also describes first-order differential equations that can be expressed in terms of }{\i y}{ over }{\i x}{
. This term is more commonly used in chemistry to denote matter that is of constant composition throughout. FTP, what is this term that describes processed milk?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul homogeneous}{\~[ACC: }{\b\ul homogenized}{ after \ldblquote milk\rdblquote ]
\par 
\par 12. One of the most quoted but least read authors of war theory, this German\rquote s }{\i On War}{
, unfinished at his death in 1831, emphasizes the importance of chance and genius in the conduct of war. FTP, name this man, a major influence on realist politicians such as Otto von Bismarck, most famous for stating, \ldblquote 
War is but the continuation of policy by other means.\rdblquote 
\par ANSWER: Carl von }{\b\ul Clausewitz}{
\par 
\par 13. Priestesses of this goddess were entrusted with the storage of wills and other sensitive documents. These priestesses were also responsible for keeping burning the eternal flame said to represent Rome\rquote s we
lfare. Those who broke their vows of chastity suffered the worst possible punishment: burial alive. FTP, identify this Roman goddess of the home and hearth.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Vesta}{ [don\rquote t accept Hestia]
\par 
\par 14. This effect is dependent on the frequency of the light use
d, but is independent of its intensity. When ultraviolet light with a sufficiently high frequency is shined upon the surface of a metal, electrons are liberated from the surface. FTP, name this effect, whose explanation earned Albert Einstein a Nobel Priz
e.
\par ANSWER: the }{\b\ul photoelectric}{ effect
\par 
\par 15. Born in 1898, he was unpopular with the Nazis because of his openly Marxist sympathies and his antimilitarism. He left Germany in 1933, and he lived in Scandinavia and the United States until the end of World War II. FTP name this author of }{\i 
The Good Woman of Szechuan}{, }{\i The Caucasian Chalk Circle}{, and }{\i Mother Courage and Her Children}{.
\par ANSWER: Bertolt }{\b\ul Brecht}{
\par 
\par 16. They extend in an arc about 750 miles from the Gulf of Genoa in the southwest to Vienna in the northeast. Giving rise to both the Rhine and the Rhone Rivers, they are home to the St. Gotthard Tunnel in Switzerland, which is the world\rquote 
s longest highway tunnel. FTP identify this mountain range that is home to Mont Blanc and the Matterhorn.
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\ul Alps}{
\par 
\par 17. This actor, who played Mr. Skolnick in }{\i Revenge of the Nerds}{, also appears in the recently-released }{\i Scream 2, }{and is slated to appear in }{\i Species 2 }{and }{\i Babe: Pig in the City. }{
FTP, name this actor, who shares his last name with a Lord Protector.
\par ANSWER: James }{\b\ul Cromwell}{
\par 
\par 18. Because of Pergonal, the state of Iowa recently got a little more attention than it had been used to. On November 19, 1997, Doctors Paula Mahone and Karen Drake delivered seven babies at once to this Hawkeye state resident. FTP, give the name of
 the first mother of healthy septuplets.
\par ANSWER: Bobbi }{\b\ul McCaughey}{
\par 
\par 19. Not only a great general and admiral, he was also a patron of public works and was responsible for the restoration and construction of many Roman structures, including the first public b
ath complex and the Pantheon. Oddly, he never became emperor, though he was next in line until his death in 13 BC. FTP, name this Roman, right\_hand man to emperor Augustus. 
\par ANSWER: Marcus Vipsanius }{\b\ul Agrippa}{
\par 
\par 20. Born in London in 1697 he was apprenticed to
 a silversmith before entering business on his own in 1720. In 1724 he entered art school and began engraving. In 1730, he began painting the satirical political works that made him famous. FTP, name this creator of }{\i A Rake\rquote s Progress }{and }{
\i Marriage \'e0 la Mode}{.
\par ANSWER: William }{\b\ul Hogarth}{
\par 
\par 21. It had sales totaling about $60 million last year, and the Frito\_Lay unit of Pepsico recently announced its plans to buy it from its parent, Borden Foods. FTP, name this 104\_year old brand of snack, a candy\_coated mix of popc
orn and peanuts referred to in the song \ldblquote Take me out to the Ballgame\rdblquote  and known for the prize toy found in each box.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Cracker Jack}{ (accept the plural, Cracker Jacks)
\par 
\par 22. Under the pseudonym Andrzej Jawien (ON\_dredge YA\_veen), this poet published the play }{\i The Jeweler\rquote s Shop}{. He is better known by yet another pseudonym, though, assumed in 1978. He earned a Ph.D. from Rome\rquote 
s Angelicum Institut, and his doctorate in theology from the Catholic University of Lublin. FTP, name this man, born Karol Wojtyla [VOY-ty-la] in 1920, who was elected pope in 1978,
\par ANSWER: Pope }{\b\ul John Paul II}{
\par 
\par 23. }{\i Old New York, }{the recently-discovered }{\i Cruise of the Vanitas, The Custom of the Country, }{and }{\i The House of Mirth}{. These were all written by a New Y
orker who in her novels depicted the contradictions of a society caught up in the passionless Victorian era. FTP, name this author of }{\i Ethan Frome}{ and }{\i The Age of Innocence}{.
\par ANSWER: Edith Newbold }{\b\ul Wharton}{
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page }{\f43\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 QUARTERFINALS (ROUND 13): BONI}{\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }{1. AUDIO BONUS.
\par Given a work heard in a movie score, identify the work }{\i or}{\~its composer, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab [Clip #1]\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Adagio}{\b\i  }{\i for Strings}{by Samuel }{\b\ul Barber}{
\par b.\tab [Clip #2]\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Canon in D}{\~by Johann }{\b\ul Pachelbel}{
\par c.\tab [Clip #3]\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Peer Gynt}{\~by Edvard }{\b\ul Grieg}{
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab [ACC: }{\b\i\ul In the Hall of the Mountain King}{]
\par 
\par 2. October 24, 1945 was the first day nations could officially join the United Nations. That day, 3 African nations joined.
\par a.\tab For 5 points each, name any }{\i two}{\~of the three.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Egypt}{, }{\b\ul Ethiopia}{, and }{\b\ul Liberia}{
\par b.\tab For 5 points each, name any }{\i two }{of the three Caribbean nations who joined that day.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Cuba}{, }{\b\ul Haiti}{, and the }{\b\ul Dominican Republic}{
\par c.\tab For 10 points, name the newest UN member with capital at Koror.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Palau}{
\par 
\par 3. For the stated number of points, given the Greek kingdom, name the hero from Homer's }{\i Iliad}{ who ruled it.
\par 5:\tab Ithaka\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Odysseus}{ [Homer did not write about Ulysses]
\par 10:\tab Lakedaimon\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Menelaus}{
\par 15:\tab Pylos\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Nestor}{
\par 
\par 4. For 5 points each, name }{\i both}{\~teams in the 1997 World Series.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Cleveland}{\~and/or }{\b\ul Indians}{, and }{\b\ul Florida}{\~and/or }{\b\ul Marlins}{
\par For 10 points, name }{\i either}{\~of the two 1997 Marlins who played with his team since its inception.
\par ANSWER: Jeff }{\b\ul Conine}{\~or Alex }{\b\ul Arias}{
\par For a final 10 points, within 2, how many runs were scored in the highest-scoring game of the series?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul 25}{\~[ACC: }{\b\ul 23}{ or }{\b\ul 27}{]
\par 
\par 5. Five points for one, and 15 for both, in what play by what author would you find Henry Higgins and Eliza Doolittle?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Pygmalion}{ by George Bernard }{\b\ul Shaw}{
\par Now, for 10 points, in Greek mythology, what was the name of the statue carved by Pygmalion, and for 5 points, who brought her to life?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Galatea}{ [10], brought to life by }{\b\ul Aphrodite}{\~[5]
\par 
\par 6. Given one of a pair of lovers, from Greek mythology, name the other, FTPE.
\par a.\tab Hero            \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Leander}{
\par b.\tab Baucis\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Philemon}{
\par c.\tab Cupid\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Psyche}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\page 7. Given a description of an Article of or Amendment to the United States Constitution, give the number, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Before this Amendment, the Bill of Rights were viewed as applying only to the Federal \tab Government and not to the states. This Amendment also barred states from denying the equal \tab protection of the laws to any citizen.
\par \tab ANSWER: Amendment }{\b\ul 14}{
\par b.\tab This Article of the Constitution describes the power and role of the judiciary, including the \tab establishment of a Supreme Court.
\par \tab ANSWER: Article }{\b\ul 3}{
\par c.\tab This Article outlines that procedures used to introduce and ratify Amendments to the \tab Constitution.
\par \tab ANSWER: Article }{\b\ul 5}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 8. For 10 points each, identify the geology term from a definition.
\par a.\tab A coral island consisting of a reef surrounding a lagoon.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul atoll}{
\par b.\tab Accumulation of rock debris carried or deposited by a glacier.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul moraine}{
\par c.\tab The scientific study of caves
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul speleology}{ [spelunking is the hobby or practice of exploring caves]
\par 
\par 9. Answer these questions about }{\i Dilbert}{, for the stated number of points.
\par 5:\tab Who is the creator and artist behind Dilbert?
\par \tab ANSWER: Scott }{\b\ul Adams}{
\par 10:\tab For what telephone company did Scott Adams work while first drawing Dilbert?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Pacific Bell}{ Communications, Inc. or }{\b\ul PacBell}{
\par 15:\tab Name the newest }{\i Dilbert}{ book, whose name is a parody of a self-help book\rquote s title.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Seven Years of Highly Defective People}{ 
\par 
\par 10. Identify tolerably well-known former or current Yale undergraduates for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab This Democratic mayor of Baltimore established a \ldblquote living wage\rdblquote  for city employees.
\par \tab ANSWER: Kurt L. }{\b\ul Schmoke}{
\par b.\tab Graduating in 1997, this actress starred in }{\i Poison Ivy}{ and was a regular on }{\i Roseanne}{.
\par \tab ANSWER: Sara }{\b\ul Gilbert}{ [ACC:  Rebecca Sara }{\b\ul MacMahon}{]
\par c.\tab Host of PBS\rquote s }{\i Firing Line}{ and founder of the }{\i National Review}{, this conservative editor and \tab author was chairman of the }{\i Yale Daily News}{.
\par \tab ANSWER: William Frank }{\b\ul Buckley}{, Jr.
\par 
\par 11. For 10 points, name the 1997 Steven Spielberg movie based on the book }{\i Slave Mutiny}{.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Amistad}{
\par For 10 points, name the conservative film critic who lambasted }{\i Amistad}{\rquote s \ldblquote educational guide\rdblquote  as \ldblquote warping history and misleading students.\rdblquote 
\par ANSWER: Michael }{\b\ul Medved}{
\par An author sued DreamWorks to halt release of the movie for copyright infringement; she herself was then accused of plagiarism in her novels. For 10 points, name her.
\par ANSWER: Barbara }{\b\ul Chase-Riboud}{
\par \page 12. FTP each, given a year and a post, name the member of Franklin D. Roosevelt\rquote s cabinet.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s19 \fs22\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 a.\tab}}\pard\plain \s19\fi-780\li780\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx780{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent780\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {
\f0 Secretary of the Navy, 1944 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab            ANSWER: James Vincent }{\b\f0\ul Forrestal}{\f0 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s19 \fs22\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 b.\tab}}\pard \s19\fi-780\li780\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx780{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent780\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\f0 
Head of the Works Progress Administration, 1933 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab           ANSWER: Harold Leclair }{\b\f0\ul Ickes}{\f0 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s19 \f4\fs22\cgrid \hich\af4\dbch\af0\loch\f4 c.\tab}}\pard \s19\fi-780\li780\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx780{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent780\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {
Secretary of Labor, 1938 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab          ANSWER: Frances }{\b\ul Perkins}{
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par 13. VISUAL BONUS.
\par You have been given a circuit diagram. For 10 points each, calculate the following. }{\i You have 10 seconds per part.}{
\par a.\tab The equivalent resistance in ohms of the resistors in box A.\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 1}{ ohms
\par b.\tab The equivalent resistance in ohms of the resistors in box B.\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 4}{ ohms
\par c.\tab The current in amperes across each resistor.\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 2}{ amperes
\par 
\par }{14. It\rquote s time to test your metal. Answer these questions on iron and steel, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab One by-product of steel furnaces is CaSiO}{\sub 3}{. What four-letter term is given to this product?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul slag}{
\par b.\tab What term is given to iron that is contaminated by sulfur, phosphorus, and silicon?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul pig}{\~iron
\par c.\tab For five points each, identify the two metals added to iron to make stainless steel.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul chromium}{ (}{\b\ul Cr}{) and }{\b\ul nickel }{(}{\b\ul Ni}{)}{
\par 
\par 15. Given a definition from Ambrose Bierce\rquote s 1911 }{\i Devil\rquote s Dictionary}{, identify the word for 15 points, or 5 points, if you need the first letter.
\par a.\tab 15:\tab \ldblquote An invention of the devil which abrogates some of the advantages of making a \tab \tab \tab               disagreeable person keep his distance.\rdblquote 
\par \tab 5:\tab \ldblquote T\rdblquote 
\par \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul telephone}{
\par b.\tab 15:\tab A rich old gentleman who has trained himself to grin while his conscience is picking his \tab   \tab \tab pocket.
\par \tab 5:\tab \ldblquote P\rdblquote 
\par \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul philanthropist}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {16. }{\f0 Answer the following questions about a special facet of North Carolina\rquote s history FTP each.
\par }\pard \s19\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 a.\tab 
These crusaders fought against exorbitant legal fees, excessive taxes and corruption in the frontier counties of North Carolina from 1764-1771. Their bitterness against the local government led them to fight as loyalists during the Revolutionary War.\tab 

\par }\pard \s19\fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 ANSWER: The }{\b\f0\ul Regulators }{\f0 of North Carolina
\par }\pard \s19\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 b.\tab 
The Regulator Insurrection was crushed at this 1771 battle. As a result, many rebellious frontiersmen fled to Tennessee while others stuck to a doomed agitation campaign for the next five years..
\par }\pard \s19\fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 ANSWER: The Battle of }{\b\f0\ul Alamance}{\f0 
\par }\pard \s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 c.\tab This governor of North Carolina led the campaign to crush the Regulators.\tab \tab 
\par }\pard \s19\fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 ANSWER: William }{\b\f0\ul Tyron}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par 17. 30\_20\_10. Identify the painter.
\par 30:\tab During his lifetime, he sold only 1 painting, }{\i The Red Vineyard}{.
\par 20:\tab In 1990, his }{\i Portrait of Dr. Gachet}{ sold for $82.5 million.
\par 10:\tab In 1987, his }{\i Irises}{ sold for $49 million.
\par \tab ANSWER: Vincent }{\b\ul Van Gogh}{
\par \page 18. Answer the following related things for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab What 1996 summer film saw Bill Pullman as the American President?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Independence Day}{ [prompt on \ldblquote ID4\rdblquote ]
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab A book with that same title won the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction. Name the man from Mississippi who wrote the novel }{\i Independence Day}{.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Richard }{\b\ul Ford}{
\par c.\tab 1998 marks the 50th anniversary of what sturdy Ford vehicle?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul F-series}{ truck
\par 
\par 19. Identify the 20th century }{\i poet}{ from lines of poetry, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab \ldblquote Do not go gentle into that good night!\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: Dylan }{\b\ul Thomas}{
\par b.\tab \ldblquote When a vast image out of }{\i Spiritus Mundi}{/Troubles my sight.\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: William Butler }{\b\ul Yeats}{\~[yates], \ldblquote The Second Coming\rdblquote 
\par c.\tab \ldblquote I think that I shall never see/A poem as lovely as a tree.\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: Joyce }{\b\ul Kilmer}{
\par 
\par 20. Islam recognizes five pillars, or responsibilities of believers.  For five points each, and a five point bonus for all correct, list the five commonly accepted pillars.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul shahadah}{ or affirmation of }{\b\ul faith}{, }{\b\i\ul salat}{ or five daily }{\b\ul prayer}{s, }{\b\i\ul sawm}{\~or }{\b\ul fast}{ing during Ramadan, }{\b\i\ul zakat}{\i \~}{or }{\b\ul charity}{, }{\b\i\ul hajj}{ or }{\b\ul pilgrimage}
{ to Mecca [ACC: English equivalents]
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {21. }{\f0 Answer the following questions about the Trial of the Chicago Seven FTP apiece.
\par a. \tab The seven were indicted on charges of conspiring to incite riots in Chicago during what event?
\par }\pard \s19\fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 ANSWER: }{\b\f0\ul 1968 Democratic}{\f0  National }{\b\f0\ul Convention}{\f0  (prompt on Democratic Convention)
\par }\pard \s19\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 b.\tab A founder of the radical Youth International Party, this \ldblquote Yippie\rdblquote  defendant eventually turned away from fringe politics in the 1970\rquote 
s and got involved in the human-potential movement. He died of a heart attack in November 1994, two weeks after being hit by a car while jaywalking.
\par }\pard \s19\fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 ANSWER: Jerry }{\b\f0\ul Rubin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \s19\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 c.\tab This fellow \ldblquote Yippie\rdblquote 
 defendant was charged with selling cocaine in 1973. He got plastic surgery and moved underground. He resurfaced in 1980 and served a year in prison before working as an environmental activist. His books include }{\i\f0 Steal This Book}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 
Soon to be a Motion Picture}{\f0 . 
\par }\pard \s19\fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 ANSWER: Abbie }{\b\f0\ul Hoffman}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par 22. DNA can be transmitted between bacteria in several ways. Given a description of a method, give its name, 15 points each.
\par a.\tab A bacteriophage injects DNA into a bacterial cell
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul transduction}{
\par b.\tab Foreign DNA is taken up by bacterial cells. Sometime the cells are known as "super-competent."
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul transformation}{
\par 
\par 23}{. For 10 points each, given the country, name the capital, which all }{\i end}{ with the letter \ldblquote A.\rdblquote 
\par a.\tab Slovakia\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Bratislava}{
\par b.\tab Bangladesh\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Dhaka}{
\par c.\tab Eritrea\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Asmara}{
\par }{\fs24 \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1915\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VII. }{\fs24 Round X.\tab Page \chpgn  of 4
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }}