{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 1e30010000001803de0f}TIMES;}
{\f43\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0806030902050204}Impact;}{\f74\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f75\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f77\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f78\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f79\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f332\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Impact CE;}{\f333\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Impact Cyr;}{\f335\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Impact Greek;}
{\f336\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Impact Tur;}{\f337\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Impact Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 
\snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright 
\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\*\cs18 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s19\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext19 Body Text;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-791269772\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid138155058}{\list\listtemplateid-1770611670\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0\levelfollow0
\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid438064765}{\list\listtemplateid2008086304\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid956958347}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid956958347\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid438064765
\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid138155058\listoverridecount0\ls3}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator stismail}{\creatim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr4\min4}{\revtim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr6\min16}{\printim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr6\min16}{\version9}
{\edmins14}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2483}{\nofchars14158}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws17387}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd 
\sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs20 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round 10.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 2}
}}{ of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs18  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\cs18\lang1024 7}}}{
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\f43\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 ROUND 10: TOSSUPS}
{\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\footery1030\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\i\fs18 
\par \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs24 
\par }{\fs22 1. Born in Minnesota, this man graduated from Yale in 1907. He wrote newspaper and magazine articles, but hoped make a living with novels. Within 25 years of his graduation, he had rejected a 1926 Pulitze
r Prize and accepted the 1930 Nobel Prize fo Literature. FTP, name this American social critic, famous for }{\i\fs22 Elmer Gantry}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Arrowsmith,}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 Babbit}{\fs22 . 
\par ANSWER: Harry }{\b\fs22\ul S}{\fs22 inclair }{\b\fs22\ul Lewis}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 2. Although he shunned all frivolous amusements, he became the youngest captain his nation\rquote 
s army by 1915. He gained respect by defeating Moroccan rebels, but he would later march against the nation he ably protected. Gaining military assistance from Germany and Italy, he reorganized the Falange in 1937. FTP identify \ldblquote El Caudillo,
\rdblquote  the Nationalist leader of Spain during its civil war.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: Francisco Pauline Hermenegildo Te\'f3dulo }{\b\fs22\ul Franco}{\fs22  Bahamonde
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 3. Son of a freedman, he fought as a military tribune at Phillipi before turning his attention to poe
try. Under his patron Maecenas, he wrote a book of epodes and four of odes. Later, Augustus commissioned him to write the \ldblquote Centennial Hymn\rdblquote , recited to open the Saecular Games. FTP, name this early Imperial poet. 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Horace}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Quintus Horatius Flaccus}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
4. It can refer to a slump or depression, or a belt around the equator which is punctuated by thunderstorms and towering cumulus clouds but is most noted for long periods of low pressure and no wind. FTP, give the word.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul doldrum}{\fs22 s
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 5. His father was a linguist, but this man received a Ph.D. in engineering for a thesis on meshing of gears\emdash 
only the second American Ph.D. in science. From 1866 to 1869 he studied math and physics in Paris and Berlin, and stated \ldblquote Mathematics }{\i\fs22 is}{\fs22  a language\rdblquote . FTP, name this
 former Yale professor whose name precedes the type of \ldblquote free energy\rdblquote  denoted as \ldblquote G.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: Josiah Willard }{\b\fs22\ul Gibbs}{\fs22 , Jr.
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 6. System V. BSD. AIX. A/UX. Slackware. HP/UX. RedHat. FTP these are all forms or adaptations of what computer operating system that was invented by Bell Laboratories in 1969?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Unix}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 7. This godson of Mandy Patinkin recently appeared in the film }{\i\fs22 The Myth of Fingerprints}{\fs22 , but his all-time favorite role has been opposite Big Bird. FTP, name this actor, who had bit parts in }{\i\fs22 Swing Kids }{\fs22 and }{\i\fs22 
A Few Good Men}{\fs22  but is best known as }{\i\fs22 ER}{\fs22 \rquote s almost-saintly Dr. John Carter.
\par ANSWER: Noah Strausser Speer }{\b\fs22\ul Wyle}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \ri-720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 8. Two answers required. The sons of Leda, one was fathered by Tyndareus and the other by Zeus. Brothers to Helen and Clytemnestra, One excelled
 as a horseman and the other as a boxer. After one of their deaths, the two split their time between Hades and Heaven. FTP, name these famed twins of Greek mythology, also the two brightest stars in the constellation Gemini.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Castor and Pollux}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \page 9. 
Deadwood and Lead, North Dakota. Bloomington and Normal, Illinois. Gardnerville and Minden, Nevada. Bangor and Brewer, Maine. Sun City and Youngstown, Arizona. FTP, all of these cities share what designation most commonly borne by Minneapolis and St. Paul
, Minnesota?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul twin cities}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 10. He finally got his break when Chas Chandler saw him playing at Caf\'c8 Wha? in Greenwich Village. His career took off after that, but financial problems and the pressures of stardom eventually destroyed him, and he died in
 England in 1970 from drug-related complications. FTP, name this left-handed guitarist whose albums include }{\i\fs22 Band of Gypsys}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 Electric Ladyland}{\fs22 .
\par ANSWER: Jimi }{\b\fs22\ul Hendrix}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 11. She helped her husband edit }{\i\fs22 The Commonwealth}{\fs22  and was active in the women\rquote s suffrage and international peace movements. She wrote several books, including }{\i\fs22 A Trip to Cuba}{\fs22 
 and }{\i\fs22 Sex and Education}{\fs22 , and introduced the idea of Mother\rquote s Day. But, FTP, who is most famous for writing \ldblquote The Battle Hymn of the Republic\rdblquote ?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: Julia Ward }{\b\fs22\ul Howe}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
12. Independent for nine years, it was recognized by the US, Britain, and France. Its second president, Mirabeau Lamar, fiercely supported imperialistic expansion. But popular sentiment ran against him, and it was annexed by the United States in 1845. FTP
, name this Lone Star Republic whose first president was Sam Houston.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Texas}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 13. Writing implement and paper ready! Two gliders are on frictionless air track. Glider A has a mass of 500 grams and is moving 10 meters per second to the right; it colli
des with a stationary Glider B that has a mass of 1000 grams. After the collision, Glider A recoils at a velocity of 5 meters per second to the left. FTP tell me the speed, in meters per second, of Glider B after the collision.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul 7.5}{\fs22  meters per second
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
14. More a social group than a movement, they were united in reaction to the formalism and realism of the late 1800s. Their name was derived from the district near the British Museum where most of them lived. Their members included E. M. Forster, John M
aynard Keynes, and Virginia Woolf. FTP, name this coterie of English intellectuals.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Bloomsbury}{\fs22 \~group
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 15. A Kurd born in Iraq, he joined the Syrian Army at age 14. In 1169, he was named commander of the army and vizier of Egypt. After Nur\_as\_din\rquote s 
death, he became the leader of the Muslim army. In 1191 he was defeated by Richard I of England, but he remains a notable Egyptian sultan. FTP identify this general who recaptured Jerusalem from the Crusaders.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Saladin}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 16. Plants of the family }{\i\fs22 Punicaceae}{\fs22 
 which produce these fruits may grow to 7 meters in height. King Solomon possessed an orchard of them, and there lack was mourned by the Jews wandering in Israel. FTP, name these leathery\_skinned fruits whose juice is the source of grenadine syrup an
d whose skin ranges from brownish yellow to red in color. 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul pomegranate}{\fs22 s
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 17. A museum to this man now stands at 20 Maresfield Gardens in Hampstead, England. Since the museum was formerly his home, much of his furniture remains, including a famous c
ouch. FTP identify this psychoanalyst of dreams who fled his native Austria in 1938.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: Sigmund }{\b\fs22\ul Freud}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 18. Members of this secret Indian group worshipped as a symbol of the goddess Kali the pickax with which they dug their victim's graves . Traditiona
lly, this group gathers in October to rob and kill wealthy male travelers. FTP, name this organization, which took its name from the Sanskrit for \ldblquote conceal,\rdblquote 
 was eradicated in the 1830s, and which sounds like a term for common street criminals.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Thug}{\fs22 s or }{\b\fs22\ul Thuggees}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0\cgrid0 
19. He reigned from 961 to 922 BC, and is noted for alliances with neighboring rulers such as Hiram. He divided his territory into 12 parts and strengthened its fortifications, as well as building a famous temple. FTP, name this wise half-br
other of Adonijah, the son of Bathsheba and David.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Solomon}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 20. This composer identified himself with Ahasuerus, the Wandering Jew. Like Ahasuerus, a number of his operas feature characters seeking redemption, such as }{\i\fs22 Tannhauser}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 Der Fliegende Holl\'e4nder. }{\fs22 
FTP, identify this composer most famous for the }{\i\fs22 Ring of the Nieblung}{\fs22 \~cycle.
\par ANSWER: Richard }{\b\fs22\ul Wagner}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 21. Though said to have unpleasant side\_effects like insomnia, nervousness, heart attacks, and sometimes death, fat\_conscious Americans rushed to buy this herbal weight\_
loss wonder drug. Its chief ingredient is ephedra, also known as Ma Huang. This amphetamine\_like compound has moved the FDA to issue a warning about the \ldblquote herbal alternative\rdblquote  to, FTP, what prescription drug with the same name? 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul fen}{\fs22 fluramine}{\b\fs22\ul -phen}{\fs22 termine\~
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 22. A University of Washington graduate student recently designed a car for use by these organisms. Members of the suborder }{\i\fs22 Blattaria}{\fs22 , these insects have backward\_pointing mouthparts and a leathery
 integument. FTP, name these ancient creatures commonly killed with Black Flag or Raid. 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: cock}{\b\fs22\ul roach}{\fs22 es
\par 
\par 23. It has been interpreted as a representation of the 7 liberal arts: grammar, arithmetic, music, geometry, astronomy, rhetoric and dialectics. T
he men in the painting represent ancients such as Aristotle and Plato, but they are given the faces of the artist's contemporaries like Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo. FTP name this fresco in the Stanza Della Segnatura by Raphael.
\par ANSWER: }{\i\fs22 The }{\b\i\fs22\ul School of Athens}{\fs22 
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page }{\f43\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 ROUND 10: BONI}{\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }{\fs22 1.}{\b\fs22  }{\fs22 Answer these questions on Connecticut history, 10 points each.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 a.\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls2\adjustright {\fs22 
The Scott-Fanton museum in this city contains a large display of hats manufactured there.
\par }\pard \qj\li720\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Danbury}{\fs22 , CT
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 b.\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls2\adjustright {\fs22 Allegedly, Connecticut\rquote 
s royal charter was hidden here in 1687, when colonial Gov. Edmund Andros tried to seize it.
\par }\pard \qj\li720\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Charter Oak}{\fs22 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 c.\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls2\adjustright {\fs22 
Name either year in which Federalist delegates met secretly in Hartford to discuss states\rquote  rights and a possible secession from the US.
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul 1814}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul 1815}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }{\fs22 2. Given a painter, identify the school of painting with which he is most associated, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Georges Seurat\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Pointillism}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Divisionism}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Neoimpressionism}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab Francois Boucher\tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Rococo}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab Theodore Rousseau\tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Barbizon}{\fs22  School
\par 
\par 3. Identify these famous Americans, who have something in common, 10 points each.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 a.\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\fs22 
Claimed to be the first Pilgrim to step on Plymouth Rock, he was the last survivor of the }{\i\fs22 Mayflower.}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\li720\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: John }{\b\fs22\ul Alden}{\fs22 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 b.\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\fs22 
This abolitionist, born in Torrington, CT, led an 1856 raid in Kansas known as the \ldblquote Pot-ta-wa-to-mie Massacre\rdblquote .
\par }\pard \qj\li720\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: John }{\b\fs22\ul Brown
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 c.\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\fs22 
This co-conspirator with Benedict Arnold actually }{\i\fs22 was }{\fs22 hanged for treason.
\par }\pard \qj\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: Major John }{\b\fs22\ul Andr\'e9}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 4. Answer the following questions about the life of Martin Luther, for ten points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 a.\tab Luther was a professor at what German university when he posted his 95 theses on the door of the castle church.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Wittenberg}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 b. \tab In 1521 he was formally excommunicated;  that year also marked the date of this famous church conference which outlawed his beliefs.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Diet of Worms}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 c. \tab Luther suffered a loss of popular appeal in Germany for his stout opposition to this 1524\_25 war, a revolt that his own spirit of independence had helped to foster.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Peasants\rquote  War}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 5. Given a software product, tell me its manufacturer for the stated number of points.
\par 5:\tab }{\i\fs22 Visual J++}{\fs22 \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Microsoft}{\fs22 
\par 10:\tab }{\i\fs22 HomePage}{\fs22 \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Claris}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul FileMaker}{\fs22 
\par 10:\tab }{\i\fs22 Marathon Infinity}{\fs22 \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Bungie}{\fs22  Software
\par 5:\tab }{\i\fs22 WordPerfect}{\fs22 \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Corel}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0\cgrid0 \page 6. Identify the following groups of people whose names begin with the same letter FTPE.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab This name was given to supporters of James II following the Glorious Revolution.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Jacobites}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab This most famous club of French revolutionaries arose from La Montagne.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Jacobins}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab This term applied to the arrogant, reactionary class of Prussian nobility.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Junkers}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 7. Grab a pencil and paper and take notes. The last name is the same: the first black poet to win a Pultizer Prize, the executive producer of }{\i\fs22 The Simpsons}{\fs22 , the star of }{\i\fs22 Defending Your Life}
{\fs22 ,the director of 1974\rquote s }{\i\fs22 Young Frankenstein}{\fs22 , and the South Carolina senator who beat Charles Sumner with a cane.
\par a.\tab For 5 points, give the common surname.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Brooks}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab For 5 points each give their first names in any order. }{\i\fs22 You have 10 seconds.}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Gwendolyn}{\fs22 , }{\b\fs22\ul James}{\fs22 , }{\b\fs22\ul Albert}{\fs22 , }{\b\fs22\ul Mel}{\fs22 , }{\b\fs22\ul Preston}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 8. Answer the following genetics questions, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab What term is given to the portions of eukaryotic genes that }{\i\fs22 do}{\fs22  code for amino acids?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul exon}{\fs22 s\~[don\rquote t accept \ldblquote introns\rdblquote ]
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 b.\tab This term is given to a cell that contains more than the normal number of copies of a genome, such as a plant cell that has eight sets of chromosomes.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul polyploid}{\fs22 y
\par c.\tab These proteins, which come in five major types, bind to DNA to form nucleoproteins.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul histone}{\fs22 s
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 9. 30-20-10. Identify the author from works.
\par 30:\tab }{\i\fs22 As You Desire Me }{\fs22 
\par 20:\tab }{\i\fs22 Henry IV and Li-o-la}{\fs22 
\par 10:\tab }{\i\fs22 Six Characters in Search of an Author}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: Luigi }{\b\fs22\ul Pirandello}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 10. Given an odd line from a movie, name the movie, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab \ldblquote Psychopaths kill for no good reason. I kill for money.\emdash No, wait, that didn\rquote t come out right.\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Grosse Pointe Blank}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab \ldblquote Long is the suede that mows like a carpet.\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Mars Attacks}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab \ldblquote I ask you consider me as an alternative to suicide.\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\i\fs22 The }{\b\i\fs22\ul Princess Bride}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 11. 30-20-10. Name the Pulitzer-Prize winning author and MacArthur Fellow from works.
\par 30: \tab \ldblquote Crabcakes\rdblquote 
\par 20: \tab }{\i\fs22 Hue and Cry
\par }{\fs22 10: \tab }{\i\fs22 Elbow Room}{\fs22 
\par \tab ANSWER: James Alan }{\b\fs22\ul McPherson}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 12. Given a polyatomic ion, state how many oxygen atoms it contains, and its oxidation state, 5 points per answer.
\par a.\tab acetate\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul 2}{\fs22  oxygens, }{\b\fs22\ul 1-}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab thiocyanate\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul no}{\fs22 \~oxygens, }{\b\fs22\ul 1-}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 c.\tab dichromate\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul 7}{\fs22  oxygens, }{\b\fs22\ul 2-}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 13. Answer these questions about regions of France, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Henk Badings wrote three songs of this westernmost region of France.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Brittany}{\fs22 \~or }{\b\fs22\ul la Bretagne}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab Paris is located in this province.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Ile de France}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab Strasbourg is located in this province which was returned to France after World War I.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Alsace}{\fs22 \~or }{\b\fs22\ul l\rquote Alsace}{\fs22  [DNA: Alsace-Lorraine]
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 14. Identify the authors of the following works, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab }{\i\fs22 One Day in the Life of Ivan De-ni-so-vich}{\fs22 
\par \tab ANSWER: Alexander }{\b\fs22\ul Solzhenitsyn}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab }{\i\fs22 Androcles and the Lion}{\fs22 
\par \tab ANSWER: George Bernard }{\b\fs22\ul Shaw}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab The Cairo Trilogy : }{\i\fs22 Palace Walk, Palace of Desire, Sugar Street
\par }{\fs22 \tab ANSWER: Naguib }{\b\fs22\ul Mahfouz}{\fs22  [Na-geeb Mah-fooz]
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 15. 30-20-10, name the Roman emperor from clues:
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 30: \tab In a fit of pique, he retired to Rhodes for eight years after being displaced in the line of succession.
\par 20: \tab Initially a just emperor, he plunged into debauched cruelty in his retirement at Capri.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 10: \tab He succeeded Augustus Caesar to become Rome\rquote s second emperor in AD 14.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Tiberius Caesar}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Tiberius}{\fs22  Claudius Nero
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par 16. PDQ Bach has parodied many works. Given the title of a PDQ Bach parody, identify the composer of the work parodied, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab }{\i\fs22 1712 Overture}{\fs22 \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Pyotr Ilyich }{\b\fs22\ul Tchaikovsky}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab }{\i\fs22 The Civilian Barber}{\fs22 \tab \tab ANSWER: Giovanni }{\b\fs22\ul Paisiello}{\fs22  or Gioacchino }{\b\fs22\ul Rossini}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab }{\i\fs22 Einstein on the Fritz}{\fs22 \tab \tab ANSWER: Philip }{\b\fs22\ul Glass}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 17. Identify these great philosophers of the 20th century from a description, for 15 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 a.\tab He was born in Vienna and spent his teaching life at Cambridge.  His masterpiece, }{\i\fs22 Philosophical Investigations}{\fs22 
, was published two years after his 1951 death.  His philosophical thought is unified by a constant concern with the relationship between language, mind, and reality.  \tab                       ANSWER: Ludwig }{\b\fs22\ul Wittgenstein}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab His reputation is somewhat soured by his early acceptance of Hitler, but his work has influenced fields as diverse as theology, psychology, and literary crit
icism.  He considered himself the first thinker to have explicitly raised the question of the \ldblquote sense of being.\rdblquote  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: Martin }{\b\fs22\ul Heidegger}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 18. 30-20-10. Name the dead French guy.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 30:\tab This physicist was trained as a physician, but was more interested in light and heat. He developed an extremely accurate method for testing telescope mirrors for defects.
\par 20:\tab Specializing in inventing extremely exact methods, in 1850 he devised one for measuring the velocity of light, as well as noting that this velocity was lower in water than in air.
\par 10:\tab His eponymous, and very large pendulum, a title of an Umberto Eco novel, showed that the Earth rotated about its axis.
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: Jean-Bernard-L\'e9on }{\b\fs22\ul Foucault}{\fs22  [foo-KO]
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par \page 19. Given the awards show, name its host, 10 points per part.
\par a.\tab The 1997 Emmy Awards\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Bryant }{\b\fs22\ul Gumbel}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab The 1997 MTV Movie Awards\tab  \tab \tab ANSWER: Mike }{\b\fs22\ul Myers
\par }{\fs22 c.\tab The 1997 Oscar Awards\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Billy }{\b\fs22\ul Crystal}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 20. For 10 points, France is offering to fly foreigners out of what former Soviet republic, after a French hostage was killed on November 30?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Tadzhikistan}{\fs22  [TAH-ji-KUH-stahn]
\par For 10 more points, name the capital of Tadzhikistan where Kar-een Mane was killed..
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Dushanbe}{\fs22 
\par For a final 10 points, name the French Prime Minister who decried Mane\rquote s killing as \ldblquote scandalous\rdblquote .
\par ANSWER: Lionel }{\b\fs22\ul Jospin}{\fs22  [ZHOS\_pan]
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 21. Identify these gemstones, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 a.\tab Generally colorless, colored variants exist. It scores 10 on the Mohs scale and shows perfect cleavage parallel to the octahedral face.
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul diamond}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 b.\tab This mineral makes up three different gemstones: pad-mar-adschah, ruby, and sapphire. It figures in the novel }{\i\fs22 On A Pale Horse}{\fs22 .
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul corundum}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 c.\tab This mineral makes up aquamarine and emerald. It is also used in some types of lasers.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul beryl}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 22. Identify these Poets Laureate of England, 10 points each.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 a.\tab}}\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls3\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls3\adjustright {\fs22 
His poetry is little read, but his prose style has been long regarded as masterly in its ease and 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 clarity. These qualities are best seen in his}{\i\fs22  Life of Nelson}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Life of Wesley and the Rise and Progress of Methodism}{\fs22 , and }{\i\fs22 
Letters from England By Don Manuel Alvarez Espriella}{\fs22 .
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: Robert }{\b\fs22\ul Southey}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab He held the position for a record 42 years and is known for \ldblquote The Charge of the Light Brigade\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: Alfred, Lord }{\b\fs22\ul Tennyson}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 c.\tab Laureate from 1668 to 1688, he wrote \ldblquote Absalom and Achitophel,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Annus Mirabilis\rdblquote  and the play }{\i\fs22 All for Love}{\fs22 
. He lost the post when he refused allegiance to William and Mary.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: John }{\b\fs22\ul Dryden}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 23. For 10 points each, identify the American President who appointed the following Supreme Court Justices.
\par a.\tab Byron \ldblquote Whizzer\rdblquote  White\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: John Fitzgerald }{\b\fs22\ul Kennedy}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab John Paul Stevens\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Gerald Rudolph }{\b\fs22\ul Ford}{\fs22 , Jr.
\par c.\tab David Souter\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: George Herbert Walker }{\b\fs22\ul Bush}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1915\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VII. }{\fs24 Round X.\tab Page 
\chpgn  of 4
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs24 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }}