{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f43\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0806030902050204}Impact;}
{\f74\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f75\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f77\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f78\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f79\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f332\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Impact CE;}{\f333\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Impact Cyr;}{\f335\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Impact Greek;}{\f336\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Impact Tur;}
{\f337\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Impact Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 
\additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext17 
footer;}{\s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-1695672860\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers
\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid1731340519}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1731340519\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator stismail}{\creatim\yr1998\mo2\dy3\hr23\min22}
{\revtim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr6\min11}{\printim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr3\min26}{\version6}{\edmins25}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2507}{\nofchars14295}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs20 {\i 
Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round 8.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 7}}}{ of 7
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 ROUND 8: TOSSUPS}{
\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\footery1420\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\i\fs18 
\par \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs24 
\par }{\fs22 
1. This field was studied by H. W. Bates and Fritz Muller, who explained why various species of butterfly that were not closely related genetically still had similar appearances. FTP, name this evolutionary approach, in one type of which weaker species 
will emulate stronger or more dangerous ones for protection.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul mimic}{\fs22 ry
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 2. Riding in a chariot drawn by goats, this god was represented as slow-wiited but extremely strong and belligerent. He was armed with iron gloves and a belt of strength, as well
 as a magic hammer, which returned to his hand after striking. FTP, identify this son of Odin, the Norse god of thunder.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Thor}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 3. Some people called it voodoo economics. Ronald Reagan called it trickle\_down economics. Conventional economists, howev
er, use a different term. FTP identify the term used to describe economic theories in which money flows from rich to poor, rather than from poor to rich as in demand\_side economics?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul supply-side}{\fs22 \~economics
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 4. He entered the political realm by prosec
uting Cimon and implemented democratic reforms with Ephialtes shortly thereafter. He would die of the plague at age 66, but his political leadership saw the creation of the Parthenon, as well as many other Greek marvels. For ten points, identify this man 
who led Athens during its Golden Age.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Pericles}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 5. Born in Macon, Georgia on May 3, 1928, his first hit was \ldblquote Please Please Please.\rdblquote  The grooves in songs like \ldblquote The Payback\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Super Bad\rdblquote 
 emphasized rhythm and bottom and revolutionized black music in the late 1960s and early 70s. FTP, name this \ldblquote Godfather of Soul\rdblquote  who influenced everyone from Miles Davis to George Clinton.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul James Brown}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 6. Whiskey and Coke, morphine, a $300 strip
per who lacked cocaine, marijuana, vodka and orange juice, and the John Hancock Building. All of these elements were part of the last hours of a man who was found dead in December.  For ten points identify this recently-deceased star of }{\i\fs22 
Beverly Hills Ninja}{\fs22 .
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: Chris }{\b\fs22\ul Farley}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
7. Her works explore the interaction among race, heritage, and culture. Her tenure as senior editor for Random House in the 70s and 80s helped her influence black thought in the period. She is most famous, though, for her novels, including }{\i\fs22 Sula}
{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Tar Baby}{\fs22 , and }{\i\fs22 The Bluest Eye}{\fs22 . FTP, name this Nobel Prize-winning author of }{\i\fs22 Beloved}{\fs22 .
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: Toni }{\b\fs22\ul Morrison}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 8. Established as a secret fraternal order in 1869 by Philadelphia garment worker Uriah Stephens, it excluded lawyers and liquor dealer
s. In an 1878 general meeting in Reading, Pennsylvania, it advocated an eight-hour workday, an end to child labor under age 14, and equal pay for women. FTP, name this chivalric-sounding labor union that lost strength in the late 1880s.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: The }{\b\fs22\ul Knights of Labor}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 9. Originally titled }{\i\fs22 Scary Movie}{\fs22 , its credits give \ldblquote No thanks\rdblquote  to California\rquote 
s Santa Rosa High School, which refused to allow the director to shoot scenes there. The sequel to this film has enjoyed considerable success since its release last December. FTP, name this 1996 Wes Craven film that starred Neve Campbell and Courtney Cox.

\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Scream}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 10. This story, which asks \ldblquote What is this world?\rdblquote , is a variant of Bocaccio\rquote s story \ldblquote Teseida\rdblquote , and provides much of the plot for Shakespeare\rquote s \ldblquote Two Noble
 Kinsmen.\rdblquote  FTP, name this first Canterbury Tale that features the two noble brothers Palamon and Arcite fighting for the love of Emily.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: \ldblquote The }{\b\fs22\ul Knight\rquote s\~Tale}{\fs22 \rdblquote 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 11. Born in 1749, he was a precocious and sensitive child of a doctor of law. Napoleon exclaimed \ldblquote Behold the man\rdblquote  upon their meeting, and some of his lesser known works include }{\i\fs22 
Gotz von Ber-lich-in-gen}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 Iphegenia at Taurus}{\fs22 . FTP, name this German author of }{\i\fs22 Wilhelm Meister\rquote s Apprentice}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 Faust.}{\fs22 
\par ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von }{\b\fs22\ul Goethe}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 12. Incorpor
ated in 1946, this company initially made voltmeters, electrically heated cushions, and resonator generators. It later produced consumer items such as tape recorders, radios, and television sets. In 1969 it introduced the color video cassette recorder and
 formed an affiliate to market its Betamax technology. FTP identify this electronics giant that innovated the Trinitron picture tube.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Sony}{\fs22  Corporation or }{\b\fs22\ul Tokyo Telecommunications Engineering }{\fs22 Corporation
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 13. Aberdeen, Scotland is using this compound to remove chewing gum from its sidewalks. This linear molecule, a gas at room temperature, combines with ammonia to form a urea precursor. FTP, name this greenhouse gas
\emdash essential to the survival of plants\emdash that can exist in solid form as dry ice.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul carbon dioxide}{\fs22 \~or }{\b\fs22\ul CO}{\b\fs22\ul\sub 2}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
14. St. Thomas Aquinas, Blaise Pascal, and Friedrich Nietzsche have been called members of this philosophical movement, but it is more accurate to mark its origins with Soren Kierkegaard. This term  may refer to any of several philoso
phic systems centered on the individual and his relationship to the universe or God. FTP, identify this movement whose leading figures also include Jean\_Paul Sartre.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul existentialism}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 15. A city of about 700 000 residents, it grew rich from the Crusa
des. It defeated Pisa and Venice in the 1200s, but its fleet was captured by Venice in 1380.  Wracked by internal disputes despite having a doge [DOEZH] since 1339, it lost most of its overseas possessions, but held Corsica until 1768.  FTP name this home
 of Christopher Columbus.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Genoa}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Genova}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 16. He painted a series of six paintings depicting seasonal changes in landscapes and peasant life, one of which is \ldblquote Hunters in the Snow\rdblquote . FTP, name this sixteenth century Flemish painter, perhaps best known for \ldblquote 
The Peasant Dance\rdblquote .
\par ANSWER: Pieter }{\b\fs22\ul Bruegel}{\fs22  the Elder
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 17. Though she was prolific, this 19th-century writer is better known for her romantic liaisons. However, write she did, using a pseudonym of course. She is the author of }{\i\fs22 Indiana, Lelia, Consuelo, }{\fs22 
and }{\i\fs22 Valentine}{\fs22 , among other works. FTP, name this author, perhaps most famous for her affair with Frederic Chopin.
\par ANSWER: George }{\b\fs22\ul Sand}{\fs22  or Amandine-Aurore-Lucile }{\b\fs22\ul Dudevant}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 18. They are occasionally named for feast days, when their radiants cannot be located. In November 1833, a massive one was observed originating from Leo. That one was later shown to recur at 33\_
year intervals. FTP, identify these drizzling phenomena, annual examples of which are the Leonid and Perseid. 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul meteor shower}{\fs22 s
\par 
\par 19. \ldblquote If a young man . . . can write a symphony like that, in five years he will be ready to commit murder.\rdblquote  So was said of this composer who wrote }{\i\fs22 Statements for Orchestra}{\fs22 \~in 1930, who won an Academ
y Award for the score to }{\i\fs22 The Heiress. }{\fs22 FTP, identify this composer of }{\i\fs22 Quiet City, Appalachian Spring,}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 Fanfare for the Common Man}{\fs22 .
\par ANSWER: Aaron }{\b\fs22\ul Copland}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 20. Although this lascivious monarch and closet-Catholic could be called the father of his country, 
he amazingly failed to sire a legitimate heir to the throne. This lack of offspring led to the crowning of his brother, which precipitated a political crisis that ended with a Dutch invasion of England in 1688. FTP name this king of England whose reign en
ded with the Glorious Revolution.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Charles II}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 21. Does. Lead. Desert. Use. Read. Sow. Wind. Subject. Object. Project. Record. These are all examples, FAQTP, of what type of word whose meaning changes depending upon the pronunciation? 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul homophone}{\fs22 s
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 22. It took four months to negotiate this treaty that is named for a town in present-day Poland. In it, Russia acknolwedged the \ldblquote independence\rdblquote \emdash or more accurately, loss\emdash 
of Finland, Poland, the Ukraine, and the Baltic Republics. FTP, name this 1918 treaty which marked Bolshevik Russia\rquote s exit from World War I.
\par ANSWER: Treaty of }{\b\fs22\ul Brest-Litovsk}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 23. The magnitude of the force, measured in dynes per square centimeter of surface, needed to maintain a velocity difference of 1 centimeter per second between laye
rs of a fluid 1 centimeter apart is a measure of this characteristic. For water, it is .01 poises [PWAH-ziz] at room temperature and .0028 poises at 100 degrees Celsius. FTP, name this property of liquids that decreases as temperature increases.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul viscosity}{\fs22 
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 ROUND 8: BONI}{\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 1. For the stated number of points, answer the following questions about the award\_winning series }{\i\fs22 Wallace and Gromit}{\fs22 .
\par 20:\tab Five points each, 20 for all three, name the three films in the trilogy.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\i\fs22 A }{\b\i\fs22\ul Grand Day Out}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 The }{\b\i\fs22\ul Wrong Trousers}{\fs22 , and }{\i\fs22 A }{\b\i\fs22\ul Close Shave}{\fs22 
\par \tab [HN: }{\i\fs22 A Close Shave }{\fs22 and }{\i\fs22 The Wrong Trousers }{\fs22 both won Oscars for best animated short film.]
\par 10:\tab Name the main sheep in }{\i\fs22 A Close Shave}{\fs22 .
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Shaun}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 2. Fifteen points each, name the Aztec deity.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 a.\tab Also called \ldblquote The Feathered Serpent\rdblquote , this god created the present form of humanity, reviving bones of the old dead by sprinkling his own blood on them.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Quetzalcoatl}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab Quetzalcoatl\rquote s dog\_headed evil twin brother, he helped create mankind.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Xolotl}{\fs22  (Sho\_lo\_til)
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 3. Answer these questions about IQs for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Name either of the scientists credited with inventing the first IQ test in 1905.
\par \tab ANSWER: Alfred }{\b\fs22\ul Binet}{\fs22 \~or Theodore }{\b\fs22\ul Simon}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab The term \ldblquote IQ\rdblquote  was first coined by L. M. Terman at what California university?
\par \tab ANSWER: Amasa Leland }{\b\fs22\ul Stanford}{\fs22 , Jr. University
\par c.\tab This eleven-letter term describes any non-verbal test of intelligence.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul performance}{\fs22 \~test
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 4. 30-20-10. Identify the common name.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 30:\tab In Mark Twain\rquote s \ldblquote The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County,\rdblquote  it is the name of miner Jim Smiley\rquote 
s champion jumper, who loses after quail shot is poured down his throat.
\par 20:\tab In Stephen Vincent Benet\rquote s short story he is the attorney whose oratorical eloquence before a jury of demons saves Jabez Stone from losing his soul to the devil.
\par 10:\tab Historically, he was a Massachusetts Senator known for his unquenchable greed but loved as a champion of nationalism over state sovereignty. In a famous debate with Senator Hayne he argued for \ldblquote 
Liberty and Union, now and forever, one and inseparable!\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Daniel Webster}{\fs22 \~[prompt on \ldblquote Webster\rdblquote ; the frog is actually \ldblquote Dan\rquote l\rdblquote  Webster]
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 5. Test your knowledge of Civil War generals by answering the following, 15 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 a.\tab Author of a standard textbook on the science of war, this West Point instructor was Lincoln\rquote s chief of staff in Washington after Winfield Scott retired.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: Henry Wager }{\b\fs22\ul Halleck}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 b.\tab A West Point graduate, he was wounded in the hand at Gettysburg and lost a leg at Chickamauga. He failed to stop Sherman\rquote s trek through Georgia.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: John Bell }{\b\fs22\ul Hood}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \page 6. For 10 points, what term is given to different forms of the same element?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul allotrope}{\fs22 
\par For 10 points, what element has the most allotropes?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul sulfur}{\fs22 
\par For a final 10 points, sulfur forms rings by concatenation. The most common type of sulfur ring contains how many atoms of sulfur?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul 8}{\fs22  atoms
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 7. 30\_20\_10. Identify the idol.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tx720\adjustright {\fs22 30:\tab Reputed to hold the bones of Krishna, its name comes from Sanskrit for \ldblquote Lord of the World.\rdblquote 
\par 20:\tab At Krishna\rquote s festival in Puri the image is drawn about on a temple cart through the streets. Some devotees were accidentally crushed to death beneath its great wheels.
\par 10:\tab The Anglicized version of its name has come to mean a massive inexorable force or object that crushes whatever is in its path.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab Answer:  }{\b\fs22\ul Jagganath}{\fs22 \~or }{\b\fs22\ul Juggernaut}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 8. Pencil and paper ready. A box of mass 500 kilograms descends at 4 meters p
er second when a winch lowering it slips, allowing it to fall with constant acceleration of 2 meters per second squared. Assume acceleration due to gravity is 10 meters per second squared. Answer the following, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 a.\tab During its fall through a distance of 12 meters, how much work in joules is done on the car by its weight? }{\i\fs22 You have 15 seconds.}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul 60,000}{\fs22  or}{\b\fs22  }{\b\fs22\ul 6.0 x 10 to the 4th}{\fs22  joules [500 kg x 12 m x 10 m/s}{\fs22\super 2}{\fs22 ]
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 b.\tab During the fall, what is the work in joules done on the cab by the tension exerted on the elevator cable? }{\i\fs22 You have 15 seconds.}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul 4,000}{\fs22  joules or }{\b\fs22\ul 4.0 x 10 to the 3rd}{\fs22  joules [500 kg x (10 \endash  2) m/s}{\fs22\super 2}{\fs22 ]
\par c.\tab What is the term for the energy of position that you used to find these answer?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: gravitational }{\b\fs22\ul potential}{\fs22  energy
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 9. 30\_20\_10, name the playwright from works.
\par 30:}{\i\fs22 \tab The Cryptogram}{\fs22 
\par 20:\tab }{\i\fs22 Oleanna}{\fs22 
\par 10: }{\i\fs22 \tab American Buffalo}{\fs22 
\par \tab ANSWER: David }{\b\fs22\ul Mamet}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par 10. Answer these questions about }{\i\fs22 Rent}{\fs22 , 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Five points each, name the opera upon which }{\i\fs22 Rent}{\fs22  is based, and its composer.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul La Boh\'e8me}{\i\fs22  }{\fs22 by Giacomo }{\b\fs22\ul Puccini}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab On what day of the year does the musical begin and end?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul December 24}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Christmas Eve}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab Name the main character, an HIV-positive rock-star wannabe.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Roger}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 11. Identify the authors of the following works, 10 points each.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\i\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 a.\tab}}\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\i\fs22 Heart of Darkness}{\fs22 \tab \tab 

\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: Joseph }{\b\fs22\ul Conrad}{\fs22  or Teodor Josef Konrad }{\b\fs22\ul Korzeniowski}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 b.\tab }{\i\fs22 Heartbreak House}{\fs22 
\par \tab ANSWER: George Bernard }{\b\fs22\ul Shaw}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab }{\i\fs22 The Heart is a Lonely Hunter
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: Victor-Marie }{\b\fs22\ul Hugo}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 12. Several parts of the body have folded or irregular structures that improve their ability to function. Given the folds, identify the organ, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab villi\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: small }{\b\fs22\ul intestine}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab rugae [ROO-gai]\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul stomach}{\fs22 \~or urinary }{\b\fs22\ul bladder}{\fs22 , }{\b\fs22\ul palate}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 c.\tab sulci [sul-ki] and gyri [gy-rai]\tab \tab ANSWER: the }{\b\fs22\ul brain}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 13. Answer the following about late-night talk shows, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 a.\tab For 5 points each, name this season\rquote s two newest shows, one hosted by an }{\i\fs22 In Living Color}{\fs22 \~star, the other launched by Quincy Jones.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\i\fs22 The }{\b\i\fs22\ul Keenen Ivory Wayans}{\i\fs22  Show, }{\b\i\fs22\ul Vibe}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab This show, hosted by Bill Maher, aired on Comedy Central before moving to ABC. 
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Politically Incorrect}{\i\fs22  with Bill Maher}{\fs22 \~
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 c.\tab This }{\i\fs22 Late Night with Conan O\rquote Brien }{\fs22 bandleader was once part of Bruce Springsteen\rquote s E Street band.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: Max }{\b\fs22\ul Weinberg}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 14. Given a celebrity or political figure, identify his or her undergraduate }{\i\fs22 alma mater}{\fs22 , 10 points each.
\par a.\tab John F. Kennedy, Jr.\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Brown}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab Hillary Rodham-Clinton\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Wellesley}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab David Letterman\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Ball State}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 15. For 10 points each, identify the geologic period from events.
\par a.\tab The boundary at the }{\i\fs22 end}{\fs22  of this period marks the extinction of dinosaurs.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Cretaceous}{\fs22 \~[do not accept Tertiary]
\par b.\tab The first forests and amphibians appeared in this period that began about 365 million years ago.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Devonian}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab Give the name for the current geologic period.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Quaternary}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 16. For 10 points each, identify the following about the recent federal trial of Terry Nichols.
\par a.\tab Identify the judge who presided over the trial.
\par \tab ANSWER: Richard }{\b\fs22\ul Matsch}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab Name the jury forewoman in the case.
\par \tab ANSWER: Niki }{\b\fs22\ul Deutchman}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab What potentially deadly charge was Nichols convicted of?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul conspiring}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul conspiracy}{\fs22  to bomb the federal building
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par 17. Identify the following early American painters FTP each:
\par }\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 a.\tab He depicted figures in contemporary costume rather than \ldblquote timeless\rdblquote  draperies in works such as }{\i\fs22 Death of General Wolfe}{\fs22 .
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER: Benjamin }{\b\fs22\ul West}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 b.\tab Originally a Boston painter, he did not sympathize with the Revolution and emigrated to England. His works include }{\i\fs22 Death and the Earl of Chatham}{\fs22 .
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: John Singleton }{\b\fs22\ul Copley}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab He is most famous for his portrait of George Washington on the dollar bill
\par \tab ANSWER: Gilbert }{\b\fs22\ul Stuart}{\fs22 
\par \page 18. Identify the }{\i\fs22 poet}{\fs22  from lines, 10 each.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 a.\tab A little learning is a dang'rous thing;/Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring
\par \tab ANSWER: Alexander }{\b\fs22\ul Pope}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered weak and weary/
\par \tab Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore
\par \tab ANSWER: Edgar Allan }{\b\fs22\ul Poe}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab Had we but world enough, and time,/This coyness, Lady, were no crime
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: Andrew }{\b\fs22\ul Marvell}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 19. Answer these questions about the decline and fall of the Roman Empire:
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 10:\tab Which barbarian tribe beseiged Rome and sacked it in }{\caps\fs22 A.D. }{\fs22 410, the first power to do so in 800 years?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: Alaric
\par 5: \tab Name the Visigoth leader, a former auxiliary commander in the Roman army.
\par \tab ANSWER: the Visigoths
\par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {15: \tab Name the last Western Roman emperor, considered a usurper by the eastern emperor and deposed in 476. He is the only emperor to be named after the first.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Romulus Augustulus}{\fs22  (ACC: Flavius Momyllus }{\b\fs22\ul Romulus Augustus}{\fs22 )
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 20. For 10 points per conjunction, conjoin the following things:
\par a.\tab a Shawn Colvin song and a 1990 Macaulay Culkin movie
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Sunny Came Home Alone}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab a 1996 film starring Uma Thurman and Janeane Garofalo, and a Nissan slogan
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\i\fs22 The }{\b\i\fs22\ul Truth About Cats and Dogs}{\b\fs22\ul  Love Trucks}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab a William Faulkner novel and a Counting Crows album
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\i\fs22 A }{\b\i\fs22\ul Light in August}{\b\fs22\ul  and Everything After}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 21. Identify the following about the Watergate scandal, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab This man served Nixon\rquote s chief of staff, earning the nickname \ldblquote the Iron Chancellor.\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: Harry Robbins }{\b\fs22\ul Haldeman}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 b.\tab This lawyer convinced the Supreme Court that Nixon was bound to obey a subpeona and turn over the White House tapes.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: Leon }{\b\fs22\ul Jaworski}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 c.\tab Investigative reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein uncovered the scandal and revealed it in }{\i\fs22 this}{\fs22  book.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul All the President\rquote s Men}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 22. For the stated number of points, if it is 9:00 am in New Haven, CT, give the time in each of the following cities, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Mexico City\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul 10:00 am}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab London, England\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul 5:00 pm}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 c.\tab Sydney, Australia\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul 11:00 pm}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 23. 30-20-10. Identify the author from works.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 30:\tab }{\i\fs22 Tales from the White Hart}{\fs22 
\par 20:\tab }{\i\fs22 Imperial Earth, Richter 10, Rama}{\fs22 
\par 10:\tab }{\i\fs22 2001: A Space Odyssey}{\fs22 
\par \tab ANSWER: Arthur Charles }{\b\fs22\ul Clarke}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1915\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VII. }{\fs24 Round X.\tab Page 
\chpgn  of 4
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {
\par }}