{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}TIMES;}
{\f16\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0806030902050204}Impact;}{\f17\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f18\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f20\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f21\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f22\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f41\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 TIMES CE;}{\f42\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 TIMES Cyr;}{\f44\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 TIMES Greek;}
{\f45\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 TIMES Tur;}{\f46\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 TIMES Baltic;}{\f113\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Impact CE;}{\f114\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Impact Cyr;}{\f116\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Impact Greek;}
{\f117\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Impact Tur;}{\f118\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Impact Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 
\snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright 
\fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator rf49}{\creatim\yr1998\mo2\dy3\hr23\min22}
{\revtim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr5\min15}{\version18}{\edmins34}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2380}{\nofchars13571}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0
\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round 1.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\lang1024 7}}}{ of 7
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\f16\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f16\fs48 ROUND 1: TOSSUPS}{
\f16\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\footery1030\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 
\par \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }{1. An American college professor goes to Spain to fight with the Republican army. He is given the task of blowing up a bridge, falls in love, blows up the bridge, but is wounded and left to die. The protagonist\rquote 
s name is Robert Jordan, and the title comes from a passage from John Donne\rquote s \ldblquote Devotions\rdblquote . FTP, name the ringing novel by Ernest Hemingway.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul For Whom the Bell Tolls}{
\par 
\par 2. Given the velocity of a charge and the direction of its magnetic field
, this can be used to determine the direction of the magnetic force. And if the direction of a rotating record is known, the angular velocity vector can be determined with this method. FTP identify this rule that is commonly used to establish the directio
n of a cross product of two vectors.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 ANSWER: }{\b\f0\ul right hand}{\f0  rule}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {3. This man is a Tony award-winning Broadway star, but unless you saw his work in the 1995 television adaptation of }{\i Bye Bye Birdie}{, you\rquote 
d probably never guess that he was such a talented singer and dancer. FTP name this actor, who portrays the decidedly un-Broadway George Costanza on }{\i Seinfeld}{ every week.
\par ANSWER: Jason }{\b\ul Alexander}{
\par 
\par 4. A/RF He and his brother were the first to rule Rome as joi
nt emperors. Though a dedicated, honest, and skillful ruler, his military and political triumphs are remembered less than his correspondence with his tutor Epicetus and his private writings. FTP, name this second-century AD stoic philosopher-king and auth
or of the }{\i Meditations.}{
\par ANSWER: Caesar }{\b\ul Marcus Aurelius}{ Antoninus Augustus
\par 
\par 5. Although they upgraded the machinery in their garage from Macintoshes to SGI workstations, brothers Rand and Robyn Miller stuck with the same formula that made their rookie endeavor in 1993 such a groundbreaking success. FTP name the Millers\rquote 
 new multimedia adventure game, which begins where its predecessor Myst left off.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Riven}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {6. When two stimuli are presented in an appropriate time and intensity relationship, one of them 
will come to induce a response resembling that of the other. This process can be described as one of stimulus substitution. In the traditional Pavlovian technique, a dog is placed in a soundproof room and trained to expect food when a bell rings. FTP iden
tify this form of learning.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul classical conditioning}{ or }{\b\ul respondent conditioning}{
\par 
\par 7. Conspiracy theorists suggest that he did not die of pneumonia in 1923, but instead committed suicide. He promised a \ldblquote return to normalcy,\rdblquote  but his ineptitude prevented 
that. His greatest weakness lay in his loosely selected and largely unsupervised cabinet, which included men like Albert Fall. FTP name this President whose death conveniently freed him from the Teapot Dome Scandal.
\par ANSWER: Warren Gamaliel }{\b\ul Harding}{
\par 
\par 8. His real name was Jerome van Aken. The more famous name of this Dutch painter comes from the name of the provinciality where he worked in isolation. Living from 1450 to 1516, FTP, name this artist who painted the 7-foot-tall tryptich now called }{\i 
The Garden of Earthly Delights}{.
\par Answer: Hieronymus }{\b\ul Bosch
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {9.}{\f0 
 . A poor student kills an elderly pawnbroker and her sister. Afterward, he reexamines his motives for the murder, and becomes disgusted by his act. Police inspector Petrovich waits until the student, Ras
kolnikov, confesses. FTP, this is a brief plot summary of which work by Feodor Dostoevski?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Crime and Punishment}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {10.}{\f0  This king of Wessex prevented the Danes from overrunning England and promoted learning and literacy. A scholarly king, he designed 
warships, translated Latin works into English and protected the weak from ignorant and corrupt judges. His reputation as an intellectual giant and wise lawgiver lives on to this day. FTP, name this victor of the Battle of Edington who lived from 849-899 A
D.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Alfred }{or }{\b\ul Alfred the Great}{
\par 
\par 11. Because DNA is only synthesized in the 3 prime to 5 prime direction, the lagging strand cannot be replicated in a single piece. Instead, it is replicated in short pieces which are later joined. FTP identify the nam
e of these pieces, which also is the name of a Japanese industrial city.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Okazaki}{ fragments
\par 
\par 12. She attended an academy that shared its name with a college her grandfather helped found, and her father served in Congress in the mid-nineteenth century. A recluse, she only published five poems in her lifetime. For ten points identify this 
\ldblquote New England mystic,\rdblquote  creator of many post-humously published untitled poems, including \ldblquote Because I Could Not Stop for Death.\rdblquote 
\par ANSWER: Emily Elizabeth }{\b\ul Dickinson}{
\par 
\par 13. In 1842, he founded the American Museum. A businessman, he promoted the concert tour of Jenny Lind and miraculously discovered the only Mastadon left on Earth and named it, \ldblquote Jumbo.\rdblquote  Of course, he also felt there was \ldblquote 
a sucker born every minute.\rdblquote  FTP identify the Connecticut native whose \ldblquote Greatest Show on Earth\rdblquote  later merged with the Ringling Brothers circus? 
\par ANSWER: Phineas Taylor }{\b\ul Barnum}{
\par 
\par 14. This was organized in Augusta, Georgia in 1845 by those who disagreed with Northern antislavery attitudes. One hundr
ed and fifty years later, it adopted a resolution denouncing racism and repudiating its prior defense of slavery. But, FTP, what large Protestant denomination recently made headlines at its yearly convention in Dallas, Texas, by voting to boycott Walt Dis
ney and its affiliates?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Southern Baptist}{\~Convention
\par 
\par 15. Noting the poor quality of American gunpowder, he obtained European support and started his own business. In World War I, his company supplied 40% of the smokeless powder used by the Allies; l
ater, it diversified into acids, lacquers, industrial alcohol, synthetic fibers, and photographic film. FTP, name this man who founded a chemical company near Wilmington, Delaware.
\par ANSWER: Eleuth\'e8re Ir\'e9n\'e9e }{\b\ul du Pont}{\~de Nemours
\par 
\par 16. Born Marie Jana Korbelova in Prague, this Wellesley graduate fled her home twice as a child: from the Nazis and from the Soviets. Hence her comment that \ldblquote my mindset is Munich\rdblquote \emdash 
referring to the 1938 meeting. Baptized and raised a Catholic, her grandparents were Jews who died in the Holocaust. FTP, name this Secretary of State.
\par ANSWER: Madeleine K. }{\b\ul Albright}{
\par 
\par 17. A depiction of this type of prophetess as an elderly crone can be seen on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel. The Erythraean one revealed to Alexander the Great his divine desc
ent, while the Cumaean one sold a set of prophetic books to the last Roman king. FTP, identify this type of ancient prophetess, one of whom guided Aeneas to the underworld.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul sibyl}{
\par 18. It emerged during the late 1960s and carried out a systematic war against Prince Norodom Sihanouk and later Lon Nol. Despite American aid to their enemies, this group took over their capital city in 1975 and declared a new government. FTP, identify th
is Cambodian posse. 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Khmer Rouge}{ or }{\b\ul Cambodian Communist Army}{
\par 
\par 19. Discovered by James Schlatter in 1965 while he was researching anti-ulcer drugs, this dipeptide has the biochemical abbreviation DF: it has an aspartic acid residue linked to one of p
henylalanine. FTP, identify this molecule, 200 times sweeter than sucrose, whose brand name is NutraSweet.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul aspartame}{\~[accept }{\b\ul NutraSweet}{\~on early buzz]
\par 
\par 20. According to the full title, she was \ldblquote twelve years a Whore, five times a Wife (thereof once to her own brother), twelve years a Thief, eight years a transported Felon in Virginia.\rdblquote 
 Eventually she became a penitent and grew rich. FTP, who is this famous female picaresque hero of Daniel Defoe?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Moll Flanders}{
\par 
\par 21. The movie version of their most famous album starred Jack Nicholson, Eric Clapton, and Elton John. A movie was also made of another of their rock operas, }{\i Quadrophenia}{
. FTP, name this London-based group whose members included John Entwhistle, Keith Moon, Roger Daltrey, and Pete Townshend.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul The Who}{
\par 
\par 22. A child prodigy, he wrote three symphonies by the time he was 18. He had a professional relationship with Franz Liszt, and counted Gabriel Faur\'e9 among his students. FTP, name this composer of the }{\i Suite Al-g\'e9-ri-enne}{, }{\i Africa}{, }{\i 
Organ Symphony}{, }{\i Danse Macabre}{, }{\i Samson and Delilah}{, and }{\i Carnival of the Animals}{.
\par ANSWER: Camille }{\b\ul Saint-Saens}{
\par 
\par 23. It rises to an altitude of 748 feet in the Valdai Hills during its 2290 mile course.  Although parts are frozen over during three to four months of 
the year, this river is almost entirely navigable.  For ten points identify this longest European river, which lies entirely in Russia.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Volga}{
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page }{\f16\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f16\fs48 ROUND 1: BONI}{\f16\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }{1. For 10 points each, given a molecule, identify its geometry. For example, if I said iodine trifluoride, you would say \ldblquote T-shaped.\rdblquote 
\par a.\tab ammonia\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul pyramid}{al
\par b.\tab methane\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul tetrahedral}{\~or }{\b\ul tetrahedron}{
\par c.\tab cisplatin\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul square planar}{
\par 
\par 2. You probably know that the main Hindu gods form a Triad.
\par a.\tab First, 5 points each, name those 3 gods.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Brahma}{, }{\b\ul Shiva}{, }{\b\ul Vishnu}{
\par b.\tab Now, 5 points each, name their wives, in any order. }{\i You have 15 seconds to begin your answer.}{
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Sarasvati}{, }{\b\ul Kali}{, }{\b\ul Lakshmi
\par }{
\par 3. Identify these Latin American poets, 15-5:
\par a.\tab 15:\tab Chilean poet, author of }{\i Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair}{ and }{\i Extravagaria
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {5: \tab He won the 1971 Nobel Prize and was the basis for a character in the movie }{\i Il Postino}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab \tab ANSWER: Pablo }{\b\ul Neruda}{ [ACC: Ricardo Neftali }{\b\ul Reyes}{]
\par b.\tab 15.\tab His collections include }{\i Eagle or Sun?}{, }{\i Sun Stone}{, and }{\i Salamandra}{.
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {5: \tab He won the Nobel in 1990
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab \tab ANSWER: Octavio }{\b\ul Paz}{
\par 
\par 4. Tom Clancy fans and biology lovers unite! FTP each, identify each of the following as bovines, Russian aircraft companies, both, or neither. Note that common names are used.
\par a.\tab MiG [mig]\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Russian aircraft company}{ [accept equivalents]
\par b.\tab Yak\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul both}{
\par c.\tab Ibex\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul bovine}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {5. Given a set of steps or stages, identify the innovative psychologist, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab 4 stages of cognitive development, including concrete operational
\par \tab ANSWER: Jean }{\b\ul Piaget}{
\par b.\tab 5 step hierarchy of needs
\par \tab ANSWER: Abraham Harold }{\b\ul Maslow}{
\par c.\tab 8 stages of psychosocial development
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Eric Homburger }{\b\ul Erikson}{
\par 
\par 6. Answer these questions about key signatures, for the stated number of points.
\par 5:\tab What is the major key with three flats?\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul E flat}{ major
\par 10:\tab Which minor key has three flats?\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul C}{\~natural minor
\par 10:\tab What term describes the relationship of C minor to C major?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul parallel}{ minor
\par 5:\tab This term describes two keys with different signatures that sound the same.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul enharmonic}{
\par \page 7. 30\_20\_10, name the author from works.
\par 30:\tab }{\i Casino Royale}{
\par 20:\tab }{\i Chitty Chitty Bang Bang}{
\par 10:\tab }{\i Dr. No}{
\par \tab ANSWER: Ian Lancaster }{\b\ul Fleming}{
\par 
\par 8. Given a Roman Emperor, name his predecessor for ten points each:
\par a. \tab Claudius \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Caligula}{ (ACC: }{\b\ul Gaius}{ Caesar Germanicus)\line b. \tab Hadrian\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Trajan}{ (ACC: Marcus Ulpius Traianus)
\par c. \tab Marcus Aurelius \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Antoninus Pius}{
\par 
\par 9. For ten points each, nswer the following about one of the founders of Apple Computer, Steve Jobs.
\par a.\tab Who, along with Jobs, co-founded Apple Computer in the 1976?
\par \tab ANSWER: Steve }{\b\ul Wozniak}{
\par b.\tab Jobs is the current interim CEO of Apple, but for what company is he the full-time CEO?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Pixar}{ Animation Studios
\par c.\tab What Oregon university did Jobs attend?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Reed}{ College
\par 
\par 10. Conjoin the following musicians and biochemistry terms, 15 points each, or 5 if you can give one half of the conjunction.
\par a.\tab Conjoin the abbreviation of the 80s rap group that gave us \ldblquote Express Yourself\rdblquote  with the abbreviation of a energy-laden triphosphate molecule.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul NWATP}{ [5 for }{\b\ul NWA}{ or }{\b\ul ATP}{]
\par b.\tab Conjoin the original stage name of the rapper who performed \ldblquote U Can\rquote t Touch This\rdblquote  with the name of the conformation that small catalytically active RNA molecules are believed to have.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul MC Hammerhead}{\~ribozyme [5 for }{\b\ul MC Hammer}{\~or }{\b\ul hammerhead}{ ribozyme]
\par 
\par 11. E/AH. Given an event, name the British monarch who was in power at its occurrence FTPE.
\par a.\tab World War I\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul George V}{
\par b.\tab Crimean War\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Victoria}{
\par c.\tab Suez Canal crisis\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Elizabeth II}{
\par 
\par 12. Identify the authors of these Pulitzer Prize winning plays, on a 15-5 basis.
\par a.\tab 15:\tab }{\i The Skin of Our Teeth}{
\par \tab 5:\tab }{\i Our Town}{
\par \tab \tab ANSWER: Thornton }{\b\ul Wilder}{
\par b.\tab 15:\tab }{\i Fences }{
\par \tab 5:\tab }{\i The Piano Lesson}{
\par \tab \tab ANSWER: August }{\b\ul Wilson}{
\par 
\par 13. 30-20-10. Identify the philosopher.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {30:\tab In 1649 he was invited by Queen Christina to Sweden, but he was unable to endure the rigors of the northern climate nor the queen\rquote s early bird habits and died not long after arriving in Sweden.

\par 20: \tab Mathematics was his greatest interest; often called the founder of analytical geometry, he became famous for a group of essays which appeared in 1637, including the }{\i Discourse on Method}{.  
\par 10:\tab Building upon the work of others, he originated the Cartesian coordinates and Cartesian curves.  He also coined the phrase, \ldblquote Cogito, ergo sum.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Ren\'e9 }{\b\ul Descartes}{
\par 
\par \page 14. For 5 points each, give the six smallest numbers greater than 100 that are prime. }{\i You have 20 seconds to begin your answer.}{
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul 101}{,\~}{\b\ul 103}{, }{\b\ul 107}{, }{\b\ul 109}{, }{\b\ul 113}{, }{\b\ul 127}{
\par 
\par 15. Ten points each, answer the following questions about Mother Teresa.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab Name the community founded by Mother Teresa that was recognized as an order by the Archdiocese of Calcutta in 1950.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Missionaries of Charity}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab What 63\_year\_old nun was elected to succeed Mother Teresa as leader of the Missionaries of Charity?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Sister }{\b\ul Nirmala}{ Joshi
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab Many people hope the Pope will speed up the normal process of canonization for Mother Teresa. Pope John Paul II has canonized more saints during his papacy than all other popes this century. Wi
thin 20%, how many saints has he canonized? 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 276}{\~[ACC: }{\b\ul 220}{ to }{\b\ul 332}{]
\par 
\par 16. Name the country from its last king, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Farouk I \tab           \tab  \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Egypt}{
\par b.\tab Zog I\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Albania}{
\par c.\tab Pedro II\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Brazil}{
\par 
\par 17. On the coast of west Africa, there are 5 nations between Sierra Leone and Nigeria.  Five points each and 5 additional points for all correct, name them in any order. }{\i You have 15 seconds to begin your answer.}{
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Liberia}{, }{\b\ul C\'f4te d\rquote Ivoire}{\~[or }{\b\ul Ivory Coast}{], }{\b\ul Ghana}{, }{\b\ul Togo}{, }{\b\ul Benin}{
\par 
\par 18. Five points each, 30 for six, give the famous names of six of the nine members of the Wu-Tang Clan. To keep this tournament clean, the rapper with \ldblquote Ol\rquote  Dirty\rdblquote  in his name is not an acceptable answer.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul RZA}{ (ri-zah), }{\b\ul GZA}{/Genius (Gi-zah), }{\b\ul Method Man}{, }{\b\ul Ghostface Killah}{, }{\b\ul Raekwon}{, }{\b\ul Inspectah Deck}{, }{\b\ul U-God}{, }{\b\ul Masta Killa}{ (Ol\rquote  Dirty Bastard is also in the group)
\par 
\par 19. Given a major or minor character, name the book, 10 points each. 
\par a.\tab Harry Haller\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Steppenwolf}{
\par b.\tab Thorin Oakenshield\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Hobbit}{, or }{\b\i\ul There and Back Again}{
\par c.\tab H. C. Earwicker (H.C.E.) \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Finnegan\rquote s Wake}{
\par 
\par 20. Identify the American historical thing, 30-20-10.
\par 30:\tab It was the name of the pro-slavery platform asserted by William Yancey in response to the Wilmot Proviso. John Breckinridge ran for president on this platform. 
\par 20:\tab A Confederate raider by this name was sunk by the }{\i USS Kearsarge}{ off the coast of France in 1864, creating an international law issue.
\par 10:\tab A territory by this name was created in 1817 and granted statehood in 1819. It later seceded from the Union and was home to the Confederate capital.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Alabama}{
\par 
\par 21. Given the name of a character, identify the TV show for the stated amount of points.
\par 5:\tab Elaine Benes\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Seinfeld}{
\par 10:\tab Maxwell Q. Klinger\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul M*A*S*H}{
\par 15:\tab Mary Richards\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Mary Tyler Moore Show}{
\par \tab 
\par \page 22. Answer these questions about architecture of the ancient world for ten points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab This famed Egyptian sage was chief architect and sculptor for King Djoser of the Third Dynasty and was responsible for the design of the Step Pyramid complex at Saqqara.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Imhotep}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab This citadel and important center of Aegean Civilization in the late Bronze Age is home to the well-known architectural works of The Lion Gate and the Treasury of Atreus.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Mycenae}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab The Byzantine Emperor Justinian oversaw the building of this great domed church in Constantinople from 532-537 AD.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Hagia Sophia}{ or }{\b\ul Santa Sophia}{
\par 
\par 23. Answer the following about light for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab What Dutchman first advanced the wave theory of light in 1678?
\par \tab ANSWER: Christian }{\b\ul Huygens}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab What is the term for the deflection from a straight path undergone by a light ray in passing from one medium into another?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul refraction}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab The speed of light in a certain medium is 2.5 times 10 to the 8th meters per second. Calculate the index of refraction for this medium. }{\i You have 10 seconds.}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 1.2}{ or }{\b\ul sixth-fifth}{ or }{\b\ul one and one-fifth
\par }{\fs24 \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1915\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VII. }{\fs24 Round X.\tab Page \chpgn  of 4
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }}