{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 1e30010000001803de0f}TIMES;}
{\f43\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0806030902050204}Impact;}{\f74\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f75\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f77\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f78\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f79\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f332\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Impact CE;}{\f333\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Impact Cyr;}{\f335\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Impact Greek;}
{\f336\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Impact Tur;}{\f337\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Impact Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 
\snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright 
\fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s20\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Body Text 2;}}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1930953146\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat3\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid462189967}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid462189967\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator stismail}{\creatim\yr1998\mo2\dy3\hr23\min22}{\revtim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr6\min8}{\printim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr6\min8}{\version9}{\edmins30}
{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2465}{\nofchars14056}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws17261}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd 
\sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round 5.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 2}}}
{ of }{\cs19 7}{
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\f43\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 ROUND 5: TOSSUPS}{
\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\footery1240\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 
\par \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }{1. A-li-za-rine yellow, methyl yellow, methyl violet, methyl orange, methyl red, brom-thy-mol blue, phenolphthalein [fee-nol-THAY-leen]. FTP, these are all used in what capacity in the laboratory?
\par ANSWER: as }{\b\ul pH}{ indicators [ACC: }{\b\ul indicators}{ or equivalent]
\par 
\par 2. Some of its minor characters are Mr. Spencer, Ackley, and Sunny the prostitute. It ends with the line \ldblquote Don\rquote t ever tell anybody anything. If you do, you start missing everybody.\rdblquote 
 And it concerns a student at Pency Prep school who goes to the city where he talks to an old flame and gets punched by a pimp. FTP, name this novel whose protagonist is Holden Caulfield.
\par ANSWER: }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Catcher in the Rye}{
\par 
\par 3. Just several days after celebrating his return to soccer by scoring for Boca Juniors, this soccer legend tested positive for drugs, just as he did during the 1994 World Cup. FTP, name this soccer legend who led Argentina to the 1986 World Cup.
\par ANSWER: Diego }{\b\ul Maradona}{
\par 
\par 4. Many of her works are based on Greek mythology, including \ldblquote Elektra.\rdblquote  Her first major work was \ldblquote El Penitente\rdblquote ; her last works included \ldblquote Acts of Light\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Maple Leaf Rag.\rdblquote 
 FTP, name this choreographer, whose best-known work is her choreography for \ldblquote Appalachian Spring.\rdblquote 
\par ANSWER: Martha }{\b\ul Graham}{
\par 
\par 5. Interiors are sprayed with limestone dust to prevent accidental explosions, and ventilation must be used to prevent methane and carbon dioxide accumulation. Pneu-mo-co-ni-o-sis is another common problem. Until 1854, over half of this industry\rquote 
s product was Pennsylvania anthracite. FTP identify this environmentally disastrous industry whose workers were covered with black soot.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul coal}{ mining
\par 
\par 6. He and his wife Mut and their son Khensu were the divine Theban triad of deities. His most celebrated shrine was at Siwa in the Libyan desert. FTP, identify this Egyptian d
eity, originally the chief god of Thebes, who, after being identified with the sun god Ra, became the supreme deity in Egyptian mythology.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Amon}{\~[DNA: Amon-Ra]
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {7. Pog\_gen\_dorff. Zoell\_ner. Hering. Ponzo. Mueller\_Lyer. The Koenig necklace. The Necke
r cube. These are all examples of, FTP, what Gestalt tricks where the normal processing of visual stimuli cause the brain to perceive something false as true?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul optical illusion}{s or }{\b\ul visual illusion}{s
\par 
\par 8. His Congress party has been accused of accepting money from the Jain family by L.K. Advani, leader of the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, but Advani himself is under investigation for the same crime and seems to be convincing few voters. FTP, who is
 this troubled prime minister of India?
\par ANSWER: P.V. Narasimha }{\b\ul Rao}{
\par 
\par 9. This country\rquote s highest point is a 13,435 foot tall eponymous mountain. Bordered to the south by Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, and Congo, it has more than 200 distinct ethnic groups. FTP, nam
e this country, known for its World Cup soccer exploits, with capital at Yaounde.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Cameroon}{
\par 
\par 10. Workers were bored in his factories, and labor turnover was around 50%. So he doubled his daily wage to $5 and instituted an 8 hour work day, which led 
to massive profits. He was later convicted of NLRB violations and forced to negotiate a standard labor contract after a strike at his River Rouge plant in 1941. FTP name this industrialist who pioneered the assembly-line system.
\par ANSWER: Henry }{\b\ul Ford
\par }{
\par 11. Doom, Doom II, Quake, Quake II, Heretic, Hexen, and Hexen II are, FAQTP, all video games created by what company?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul id}{ Software
\par 
\par 12. Nadine Gordimer\rquote s }{\i The Conservationist}{, Salman Rushdie\rquote s }{\i Midnight\rquote s Children}{, Thomas Keneally\rquote s }{\i Schindler\rquote s Ark}{, Kazuo Ishiguro\rquote s }{\i The Remains of the Day}{, and Michael On-daat-je
\rquote s }{\i The English Patient}{ have all been awarded, FTP, what annual prize given for the best novel written by a British, Commonwealth, or South African author?
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\ul Booker Prize}{
\par 
\par 13. Because of his father\rquote s debts and treaties, Parliament would not appropriate funds for this king\rquote 
s government. In response, he increased duty collection and secured loans from nobles. Frustrated with Parliament, he dismissed the body in 1629. FTP identify this monarch who fueled the English Civil War and was beheaded in 1649.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Charles I}{
\par 
\par 14. Writing implement and paper ready! A rhombus has diagonals of lengths 12 and 16. FAQTP, what is the length of each side? }{\i You have 10 seconds to buzz in.}{
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul 10}{ [the diagonals from right triangles of sides 6 and 8]
\par 
\par 15. She was killed in a cellar on either July 16 or 17 in 1918. Despite this, Marcelle-Maurette wrote a play about her survival, and Ingrid Bergman won an Academy Award for playing her in 1956. In an effort to clai
m the Romanov fortune, numerous people have claimed to be this princess. FTP, identify the youngest daugher of Nicholas II, most recently portrayed in a Don Bluth film.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Anastasia}{ (Anastasiya Nikolayevna in Russian)
\par 
\par 16. The six\_inch teeth of this e
xtinct shark lead to its name, and to the mistaken belief it was 100 feet long. The estimate has since been revised to 45 feet, which still puts Jaws, a closely related species, to shame. Its genus name, shared with the Great White Shark, is }{\i 
Carcharodon}{ [kar\_kare\_ro\_don], while its species name can be translated as \ldblquote very large teeth.\rdblquote  FTP, name this fish. 
\par ANSWER: }{\i Carcharodon }{\b\i\ul megaladon}{\~[ACC: extinct }{\b\ul great white shark}{\~on early buzz]
\par 
\par 17. Its characters discuss what a man with the ring of Gyges might do. In pondering this, the Sophists argued that the only reason for acting justly is that one cannot get away with acting unjustly. Socrates responds by describing a perfectly just city. F
TP, identify this dialogue, possibly Plato\rquote s greatest work of political philosophy, more famous for the allegory of the cave described in Book V.
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\i\ul Republic}{ or }{\b\i\ul Politeia}{
\par 
\par 18. The son of a common woman named Try, he became pharaoh in 1353 BC. He mov
ed the capital from Thebes to Tell-el-Amarna, which was littered with sculptures of his wife Nefertiti, and where he renounced the polytheism of his ancestors. FTP, name this pharaoh, born A-men-ho-tep IV, whose later name means \ldblquote 
one who is useful to Aton.\rdblquote 
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Ikhnatun}{ or }{\b\ul Akhenaton}{
\par 
\par 19. After this man received a bachelor\rquote s degree, his university shut down for two years because of the plague. Two years after it reopened, he was appointed to a professorship. Then forced to deliver a series of lectures, he chose speak \ldblquote 
On Colours\rdblquote  about his work in optics. FTP identify this inventor of three laws of motion and the calculus.
\par ANSWER: Isaac }{\b\ul Newton}{
\par 
\par 20. One section is told as a first-person narrative by greedy, petty-minded Jason; another section is a third-pe
rson narrative focused on Dilsey, the family cook; a third section follows the thoughts of Quentin, a Harvard student; and the opening section is seen through the eyes of an idiot, Benjy Compson. FTP, name this William Faulkner novel.
\par ANSWER: }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Sound and the Fury}{
\par 
\par 21. Ross Perot delivering the Gettyburg Address, the Flinstones meeting the Jetsons, the wild west landscape of Kevin Costner's }{\i The Postman}{, clocks in }{\i Julius Caesar}{
, and perhaps Bob Dole in the 1996 presidential election. FTP these are examples of what eleven-letter term\emdash from the Greek for \ldblquote out of time\rdblquote \emdash that is used to describe something that, time-wise, is out of place.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul anachronism}{
\par 
\par 22. \ldblquote One Day I Wrote Her Name Upon the Sand\rdblquote  is one of the 89 sonnets from his }{\i Amoretti}{. He also wrote the twelve eclogues of }{\i The Shepheardes Calendar}{ and \ldblquote Prothalamion.\rdblquote 
 FTP name this 16th century author, who never finished his magnum opus, }{\i The Faerie Queene}{.
\par ANSWER: Edmund }{\b\ul Spenser}{
\par 
\par 23. This composer ironically published a book of poems entitled \ldblquote I-VI\rdblquote  [I dash V-I]. This California-born composer wrote }{\i Fontana Mix}{ and }{\i Roaratorio.}{
 FTP, identify this composer of prepared piano music, who died in 1990, whose most famous work was once performed at 11:55:27 PM.
\par ANSWER: John Milton }{\b\ul Cage}{
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page }{\f43\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 ROUND 5: BONI}{\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }{1. You have an ideal gas in a 22.4 liter container at 1 atmosphere of pressure at 298 Kelvin. You double the pressure at constant volume. Now, answer the following.
\par a.\tab For 10 points, what is the final temperature, in Kelvin, of the gas?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 596}{ Kelvin
\par b.\tab For 10 points, how many moles of gas were there in the container?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 1}{ mole [1 mole of an ideal gas is 22.4 liters at STP]
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab Unfortunately, oxygen is a real gas so the ideal gas equation fails. For 10 points, which scientist, who gave his name to a type of atomic radius, found an equation for real gases?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Johannes Diderik }{\b\ul van der Waals}{
\par 
\par 2. Answer the following about the Newbery Medal winner }{\i Dear Mr. Henshaw}{, ten points each.
\par a.\tab Name the author.
\par \tab ANSWER: Beverly }{\b\ul Cleary}{
\par b.\tab Name the character who wrote letters to Mr. Henshaw.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Leigh}{ Botts
\par c.\tab What was the occupation of Leigh\rquote s father?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul truck driver}{\~[accept equivalents]
\par 
\par 3. Identify the following concepts from Islam, 10 points per part.
\par a.\tab For five points each, identify the two main branches of Islam.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Sunni}{, }{\b\ul Shi\rquote a}{\~or }{\b\ul Shiite}{
\par b.\tab This is the name for the person who leads prayers in a congregation.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\i al}{\b\i -}{\b\i\ul Imam}{
\par c.\tab This name is given to the life story of the Prophet Muhammad, considered a holy book.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\i al-}{\b\i\ul Hadith}{
\par 
\par 4. Answer the following about the events that formed the basis for Steven Spielberg's }{\i Amistad}{.
\par a.\tab In what year was }{\i La Amistad}{ taken by the U.S. Coast Guard?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 1839}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab What island was both the origin and the intended destination of }{\i La Amistad}{ when slaves took over the ship?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Cuba}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab What colony did most of the freed }{\i Amistad}{ slaves go to after the U.S. Supreme Court released them?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Sierra Leone}{
\par 
\par 5. Identify these related people, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab This man creates a monster in an 1818 work by Mary Shelley.
\par \tab ANSWER: Dr. Victor }{\b\ul Frankenstein}{
\par b.\tab This Danish musician is famous for his comedy routines, especially \ldblquote Phonetic Punctuation.\rdblquote 
\par \tab ANSWER: Victor }{\b\ul Borge}{\~[BOHR-guh]
\par c.\tab This man liked Remington razors so much, he bought the company.
\par \tab ANSWER: Victor }{\b\ul Kiam}{ [KYE-ahm]
\par 
\par \page VISUAL BONUS.
\par 6. Answer these questions about the conic section on the handout for the stated number of points.
\par 5:\tab What type of conic section is this?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul parabola}{
\par 10:\tab What term is given to the point X on the handout?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul focus}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {15:\tab Give the term for }{\i either}{\~the line marked L }{\i or}{\~the line segment marked Q. You must state which one you are naming.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul directrix}{\~(L) or }{\b\ul latus rectum}{ (Q)
\par 
\par 7. For 10 points each, answer these questions about recent museum projects. 
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab In October, 1997, a new branch of this famous New York City museum opened in Spain, under architect Frank O. Gehry.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: The }{\b\ul Guggenheim}{ Museum
\par b.\tab What city in the Northern Basque region of Spain is the new museum in?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Bilbao}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab This museum, set to open in Los Angeles in December, was designed by Richard Meier, and is said to be the most expensive arts complex ever built.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: The }{\b\ul Getty}{ Center
\par 
\par 8. Answer the following questions about the Cold War for 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab Because State Department regulations barred him from publishing under his own name, this foreign policy analyst formulated the doctrine of containment, using the name \ldblquote Mr. X\rdblquote .\tab 

\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: George }{\b\ul Kennan}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab In a speech in Missouri Winston Churchill popularized this two-word phrase to describe Soviet domination of Eastern Europe and the resultant lack of access for the West.\tab \tab 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Iron Curtain}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab This Soviet Premier enforced his own doctrine by using Soviet forces to oust a liberalizing regime in Czechoslovakia in 1968.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Leonid }{\b\ul Brezhnev}{
\par 
\par 9. Identify these musical forms, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab A work in three or four movements, usually for one or two instruments, such as Beethoven\rquote s }{\i Path\'e9tique}{.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul sonata}{
\par b.\tab A sonata for orchestra, or a term meaning \ldblquote sounding together\rdblquote .
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul symphony}{
\par c.\tab A choral work in unrelated movements, which, unlike an oratorio, doesn\rquote t tell a story.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul cantata}{
\par 
\par 10. The US recently qualified for this year\rquote s World Cup by finishing second in the North American and Carribbean region.
\par a.\tab For 10 points each, name the region\rquote s other two qualifiers.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Mexico}{ and }{\b\ul Jamaica}{
\par b.\tab And for five points each, name the two automatic qualifiers for the 1998 World Cup.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul France}{ [as host country] and }{\b\ul Brazil}{ [as defending champion]
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 11. Identify these related art terms for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab A pattern made on a metal plate or other surface with acid.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul etching}{
\par }\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab A gem, stone, or shell cut so that a raised design of a different color than the background appears.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul cameo}{
\par c.\tab A figure or design incised into the surface of hard metal or stone
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul intaglio}{
\par 
\par 12. Meditate for a moment, and answer these related questions, for the stated number of points.
\par 5:\tab What is the SI unit of resistance?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul ohm}{s
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {10:\tab This literary point of view allows the reader to adopt the perspective of an outsider who is able to observe all actions. The word means having infinite awareness, understanding, and insight.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul omniscient}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {15:\tab Coming from the Swedish for \ldblquote commissioner\rdblquote , this person investigates complaints and tries to reach an equitable settlement.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul ombuds}{person or }{\b\ul ombudsman}{\~or }{\b\ul ombudswoman}{
\par 
\par 13. For 10 points each, given a quantity, give its standard SI unit.
\par a.\tab quantity of electric charge \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul coulomb}{
\par b.\tab thermodynamic temperature\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul kelvin}{
\par c.\tab luminous intensity \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul candela}{
\par 
\par 14. Name the New Deal governmental agency given its acronym:
\par 5:\tab FDIC \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
\par }{5: \tab WPA\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Works Progress Administration}{
\par 10: \tab RFC\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Reconstruction Finance Corporation}{
\par 10: \tab CCC\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Civilian Conservation Corps}{
\par 
\par 15. For ten points each, identify the capital city of the following island nations.
\par a.\tab Tuvalu\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Funafuti}{
\par b.\tab Indonesia\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Jakarta}{
\par c.\tab Jamaica\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Kingston}{
\par 
\par 16. We know you read comic books. Given a superhero\rquote s true identity, name him or her, for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab  Stanley Ipkiss\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: The }{\b\ul Mask}{
\par b.\tab Al Simmons\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Spawn}{
\par c.\tab Jennifer Walters\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul She-Hulk}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {17.}{\f0  Do you know a lot about the czars of Russia? Answer the following questions FTP each.
\par }\pard \s18\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 a.\tab This emperor inspired and solidified Russia\rquote s morale during the French invasion. He also took part in the Congress of Vienna and pushed the establishment of the Holy Alliance in
 1815.
\par }\pard \s18\fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 ANSWER: }{\b\f0\ul Alexander I
\par }\pard \s18\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f0 b.\tab This czar modernized Russia\rquote 
s military and industry and was the first to sponsor education along secular lines with state control. He would often beat his high officials with his stick.      ANSWER: }{\b\f0\ul Peter I}{\f0  or }{\b\f0\ul Peter the Great}{\f0 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 c.\tab}}\pard\plain \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart3\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright \fs22 {
He was the first to earn the title of czar. His reign saw the start of a centralized, united Russia whose empire included non-Slav states. He terrorized the aristocrats and killed his only heir.
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Ivan IV}{ or }{\b\ul Ivan the Terrible}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {18. Identify the Shakespearean play for 15 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab The title character strangles his wife Desdemona, then realizes his horrible mistake and commits suicide.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Othello}{\i 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 b.\tab One title character hears that the other is dead and 
falls on his sword. The second title character learns that the ruler plans to lead her in triumph through Rome. Thereupon, she induces an asp to bite her and also dies.
\par \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Antony and Cleopatra}{\i 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {19. Identify these terms from Norse mythology from a brief description, for ten points each.
\par a.\tab This was the name given to the chief gods of Asgard.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Aesir}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab This was the name given to the other race of gods, three of whose members\-\emdash Njord, Frey, and Freya\emdash were associated with the Aesir.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Vanir}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c. \tab This was the term for the final destruction of the present world in a battle between gods and giants.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Ragnarok}{
\par 
\par 20. Name the authors of these famed Latin works, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab }{\i Satires}{\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Juvenal}{
\par b.\tab }{\i Ars Amatoria}{ and }{\i Metamorphoses}{\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Ovid}{
\par c.\tab }{\i Meditations}{\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Marcus Aurelius}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {21. Name the psychological test from clues for 10 points, or give the acronym for 5.
\par a.\tab Subjects look at black\_and \_white and colored symmetrical inkblots and say what they see.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Rorschach}{ inkblot test [prompt on \ldblquote inkblot\rdblquote ]
\par b.\tab Subjects are shown pictures of people interacting and then say what they think is going on.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Thematic Apperception Test}{\~[5 for }{\b\ul TAT}{]
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab This 567 true\_false test is designed to rate individuals in 14 different areas of personality, such as 
depression, paranoia, and psychopathic deviance. It is the most frequently administered psychological test in a professional setting.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory}{ [5 for }{\b\ul MMPI}{]
\par 
\par 22. Answer the following about the Newbery Medal winner }{\i Dear Mr. Henshaw}{, ten points each.
\par a.\tab Name the author.
\par \tab ANSWER: Beverly }{\b\ul Cleary}{
\par b.\tab Name the character who wrote letters to Mr. Henshaw.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Leigh}{ Botts
\par c.\tab What was the occupation of Leigh\rquote s father?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul truck driver}{\~[accept equivalents]
\par 
\par 23. For 10 points each, expand the acronyms for the following medical tests.
\par a.\tab EEG\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul ElectroEncephaloGram}{\b  }{[or ...}{\b\ul Graph}{]
\par b.\tab MRI\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Magnetic Resonance Imaging}{
\par c.\tab PET\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Positron Emission Tomography}{\fs24 \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1915\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 
Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VII. }{\fs24 Round X.\tab Page \chpgn  of 4
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }}