{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times;}
{\f43\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0806030902050204}Impact;}{\f74\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f75\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f77\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f78\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f79\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f332\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Impact CE;}{\f333\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Impact Cyr;}{\f335\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Impact Greek;}
{\f336\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Impact Tur;}{\f337\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Impact Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 
\snext0 Normal;}{\s3\qj\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel2\adjustright \b\i\f4\ul\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\*\cs18 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator stismail}
{\creatim\yr1998\mo2\dy3\hr23\min22}{\revtim\yr1998\mo2\dy4\hr5\min39}{\version12}{\edmins36}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2343}{\nofchars13356}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i 
Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round 11.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 2}}}{ of }{\cs18 7}{
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\f43\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 ROUND OF 32 (R
OUND 11): TOSSUPS}{\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\footery1030\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 
\par \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par 1. The Ca
tholic Encyclopedia says it was founded for Cistercian monks in Monmouthshire, England in 1131 by Walter de Clare. Only the roofless church remains intact at its former site on right bank of the Wye River. Yet for some reason there was a good place to com
pose lines a few miles above it. FTP, identify this namesake of a poem by William Wordsworth.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Tintern Abbey}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {2. Boxburghshire, Ross and Cromarty, Caithness, Ayrshire, Perthshire, Fife, Midlothian, Angus. This counties are all located in a single Eur
opean country. It has been part of the United Kingdom since 1707, and its patron saint is Andrew, even if he did not wear a kilt. FTP identify this home of Loch Ness.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Scotland}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {3. Arizona. California. Hawaii. Louisiana. New Mexico. North Carolina. 
Texas. These are the seven states in which, FTP, what scholarships touted by President Clinton would fully cover the costs of two years at a community college?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul HOPE}{\~Scholarships
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {4. In the middle were Towton, Barnet, and Tewkesbury. At the start was St. Alban\rquote 
s, and at the end, depending on which version you prefer, is either the wedding of Henry VII and Elizabeth of York, or Bosworth Field. FTP name this series of English civil wars.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: The }{\b\ul Wars of the Roses}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {5. This film begins with the title character floating in a pool, singing a song about the virtues of sun tan lotion. The plot is this: an immature 28-year-old must repeat 12 years of school in 24 weeks or else his father
\rquote s aide will gain control of the family empire. FTP, name this movie that features Bridgette Wilson, Norm MacDonald, and of course, Adam Sandler in the title role.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel2\adjustright \b\i\f4\ul\cgrid {\b0\i0\f0\fs22\ulnone ANSWER: }{\f0\fs22 Billy Madison}{\b0\i0\f0\fs22\ulnone 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {6. In the work of Wagner she is a Valkyrie who defies her father, Wotan. In the Icelandic version, the Vol-sun-ga-saga, she is the chief of
 the Valkyries who is saved by, and falls in love with, Sigurd. FTP, identify this mighty female warrior of Germanic mythology who, in the medieval epic poem, is defeated in combat by Siegfried and is wed to Gunther.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Brunhild}{ or }{\b\ul Brunnehilde}{ or }{\b\ul Brynhild}{ [don\rquote t accept Broom Hilda]
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
7. The nickname is the same: a Muslim pirate born Khayr ud-Din who captured Algiers in 1529 and Tunis in 1534 for the Ottomans; a Holy Roman Emperor named Frederick; and the code name for the 1941 German invasion of Russia. FTP, give the common name.

\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Barbarossa}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {8. It was recently shown that nitric oxide, NO, is one of these, as are histamine, aspartate, gl
ycine, and dopamine. FTP, name this class of molecules, whose most famous examples are serotonin and acetylcholine, which are released at synapses between neurons to transmit messages.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul neurotransmitter}{s
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 9. The son of Charles IX, he became king of his country in 1611. He was a devout Lutheran, and he was fluent in 5 languages and acquainted with 8. He entered the Thirty Years\rquote 
 War on the side of the Protestants in 1630 and met his demise at the Battle of Lutzen in 1632. FTP, name this King of Sweden.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Gustavus Adolphus}{ or }{\b\ul Gustav II Adolf}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {10. Sometimes called the Stagirite, this man\rquote s extant works consist largely of written versions of his lectures. Chief among these are the }{\i Organum}{, }{\i De Anima}{, }{\i Physics}{, }{\i Metaphysics}{, and }{
\i De Poetica}{. In 335 BC he opened his own school, the Lyceum. FTP, identify this Greek philosopher, tutor to Alexander the Great, and Plato\rquote s most famous student.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Aristotle}{
\par 
\par 11. His first public concert was in St. Petersburg in 1911. When the Russian Revolution broke out,
 his family emigrated to America; he made his Carnegie Hall debut in 1917. He became a musical sensation overnight, and a US citizen in 1925. In the 1940s he settled in Beverly Hills, CA, where he lived until his death. FTP, name this prodigy of the violi
n who played for 83 years.
\par ANSWER: Jascha }{\b\ul Heifetz}{\~[DNA: Sergei Rachmaninoff]
\par 
\par 12. His wife Elaine was also a painter. His paintings usually retained figurative elements, and were often characterized by frenzied brushwork. He emigrated to the US in 1926 from
 the Netherlands. FTP name this abstract expressionist action painter whose famous works include a series entitled }{\i Woman}{.
\par ANSWER: Willem }{\b\ul De Kooning}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {13. Michael Bennet. James Kirkwood. Nicholas Dante. Marvin Hamlisch. Edward Kleban. All five men collaborat
ed to create this play that won the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 1976. In addition, the show garnered 9 Tony Awards, including Best Broadway Musical. FTP identify this \ldblquote one singular sensation\rdblquote 
 that ran 6137 times and was made into a 1985 movie.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\i A }{\b\i\ul Chorus Line}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
14. The tallest mountain in Florida, it is located on private land. There is also one in California, but Mount Whitney clearly dwarfs it. Not only can you not climb it, but you have to be at least 40 inches tall just to enter it. FTP, name this 
Walt Disney World ride that takes you on a ride through the universe.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Space Mountain}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {15. By Gibbs\rquote  phase rule, for a pure substance, it can only occur at a single combination of temperature and pressure. For water, it occurs at 4.58 millimeters of
 mercury and 0.01 degrees Celsius. FTP, identify this location on a phase diagram where solid, liquid, and gas phases are at equilibrium.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul triple point}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {16. A man was arrested in Phoenix and brought to a police station. There, a victim identified hi
m as a kidnapper and rapist. Despite this and a signed confession, the United States Supreme Court freed Ernesto. FTP, identify this 1966 court case that ensured that accused criminals would be made aware of their constitutional rights, which police offic
ers now read to arrested individuals.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Miranda}{\i  v. Arizona}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {17. In July 1781, George Washington gave him command of a battalion which fought at Yorktown. The illegitimate son of a drifting Caribbean trader, he was born on Nevis in 1755. After serving in Washington\rquote 
s Cabinet, he went on to win a seat in New York\rquote s state legislature in 1786. FTP name this statesman and financial wizard who appears on the $10 bill.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: Alexander }{\b\ul Hamilton}{
\par \page 18. This Scottish author of }{\i A Plain Discovery of the Whole Revelation of Saint John}{ was one of the first to use the decimal point. But, FTP, who is best known as the inventor, as described in his 1614 }{\i Ca-no-nis De-scrip-ti-o}{
 of the first system of logarithms?
\par ANSWER: John }{\b\ul Napier}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {19. Margaret Fuller, Theodore Parker, Bronson Alcott, and William Ellery Channing were all members of a Boston club founded in 1836, This group, which lent its name to a literary movement, published a magazine entitled }{
\i The Dial}{. FTP, name this club, whose other members included Ralph Waldo Emerson and Henry David Thoreau.
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\ul Transcendental}{ Club [ACC: }{\b\ul Transcendentalism}{]
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {20. Bird. Fish. Wild. Cool. Pole. Fat. Tom. Big. Pussy. All of these words can precede or follow, FTP, what three\_letter word?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul cat}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {21. It was the first major advance in fluid mechanics since Archimedes\rquote s principle. Formulated 1800 years later, this law relates the efflux velocity of a liqu
id through an orifice in a vessel to the liquid height above it. FTP, name this law first stated in 1643 by the inventor of the barometer.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul Torricelli}{\rquote s\~law
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {22. His first singing group was \ldblquote The Hoboken Four,\rdblquote  but he gained fame as the lea
d crooner for the Tom Dorsey Band. His solo career took off during World War II as women swooned over him. His singing started to falter, so he switched to film, winning an Oscar for his roles in }{\i From Here to Eternity}{ and }{\i 
The Man With The Golden Arm}{. FTP, name this leader of the Rat Pack.
\par ANSWER: Frank }{\b\ul Sinatra
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {23. Born in England, he spent most of his adult life in Canada. He became famous with the collection }{\i Songs of a Sourdough}{ in 1907, and wrote the popular novel }{\i The Trail of \rquote 98}{
 in 1910. FTP, name this writer and poet famous for the frontier ballads }{\i The Shooting of Dan McGrew}{ and }{\i The Cremation of Sam McGee}{.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: Robert William }{\b\ul Service}{ 
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page }{\f43\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f43\fs48 ROUND OF 32 (ROUND 11)}{\f43\fs48 : BONI}{\f43\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }{1. The American gay rights movement can be traced to a riot, for 10 points, at what New York City bar?
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\ul Stonewall}{ Inn
\par For 10 points, in what year did the Stonewall riot occur?
\par ANSWER: 19}{\b\ul 69}{
\par For a final 10 points, the Stonewall Inn is located on what street, that has given its name to a magazine?
\par ANSWER: 53 }{\b\ul Christopher}{ Street
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {2. No need to keep you waiting for these points. Ten points each.
\par a.\tab Name the author of the absurdist classic }{\i Waiting for Godot}{.
\par \tab ANSWER: Samuel }{\b\ul Beckett}{
\par b.\tab Now, for five points each, name the two tramps in this play who do all the waiting.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Vladimir}{\~and }{\b\ul Estragon}{\~[ACC: }{\b\ul Didi}{\~and }{\b\ul Gogo}{]
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab Finally, name the Clifford Odets play about a taxi drivers\rquote  strike in which the title character\rquote s murder spurs the men to action.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Waiting for Lefty}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {3. 30-20-10. Name the animal.
\par 30:\tab This animal is memorialized in Wisconsin\rquote s Wyalusing State Park.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {20:\tab Its scientific name is }{\i Ec-to-pis-tes mi-gra-tor-ius}{, and its North American population was in the billions in the early 1800s.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {10:\tab This bird was hunted to extinction by 1914.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul passenger pigeon}{\~[prompt on \ldblquote pigeon\rdblquote ]
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {4. Given a description, identify the American Constitutional amendment for 10 points.
\par a.\tab It prevents soldiers from being quartered in American homes during peace.
\par \tab ANSWER: Amendment }{\b\ul 3}{
\par b.\tab It prevents a poll tax from being charged to voters.
\par \tab ANSWER: Amendment }{\b\ul 24}{
\par c.\tab It states that the right to vote cannot be denied on account of race.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Amendment }{\b\ul 15}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {5. For 15 points from three-letter airport code, or 5 points from airport name, identify the city.
\par a.\tab 15:\tab ORD
\par \tab 5:\tab O\rquote Hare International Airport\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Chicago}{, Illinois
\par b.\tab 15:\tab SVO
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab 5:\tab Sheremetyevo International Airport\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Moscow}{, Russia
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {6. Answer these questions about Scandinavian settlement in North America, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab Leif Ericsson is believed to have made the voyage from Greenland to Newfoundland circa 1000 AD, but he did not establish a permanent settlement. What name did he give Newfoundland?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Vinland}{
\par b.\tab Who was Leif Ericsson\rquote s father?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Eric the Red}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab This 200\_pound slab of rock\emdash which may be a fake\emdash was discovered in 1898 near a Minnesota town of this name. Carved in runes, an inscription describes a 1362 Norse expedition.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: the }{\b\ul Kensington}{ runestone
\par 7. Identify the French Rococo artists from clues, 15 points each.
\par a.\tab The first great Rococo painter, he painted \ldblquote Pilgrims Leaving the Island of Cythera\rdblquote .
\par \tab ANSWER: Antoine }{\b\ul Watteau}{
\par }\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab The pupil of Boucher, the critics the Goncourt brothers called him \ldblquote the master of a dream world\rdblquote .
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Jean\_Honore }{\b\ul Fragonard}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {8. FTP, given the description of a race from Swift\rquote s }{\i Gulliver\rquote s Travels}{, name it.
\par a. \tab Huge humanoid creatures who keep Gulliver captive as a pet.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Brobdignagians
\par }{b.\tab Hairy, smelly humanoids who lack intelligence and language.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Yahoos
\par }{c. \tab The equine species whose intelligence and peaceful nature Gulliver admires.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Houyhnms}{ [hwin-ums] [ACC: any reasonable attempt]
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {9. 30\_20\_10. Identify the scientist.
\par 30:\tab The American Chemical Society\rquote s highest award is named for this chemist.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {20:\tab His technique for \ldblquote impregnating water with fixed\_air\rdblquote  using sulfur acid and chalk, was suggested for making drinking water palatable, planting the seeds for the soda industry.

\par 10:\tab On August 1, 1774, this man with a devout-sounding name discovered and isolated oxygen, or as he called it, \ldblquote dephlogisticated air\rdblquote .
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: Joseph }{\b\ul Priestley}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {10. Answer these questions about Camillo Cavour, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Cavour helped install this King of the newly\_unified Italy.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Victor Emmanuel II}{\~or }{\b\ul Vittorio Emmanuelle II}{
\par b.\tab Cavour was a political leader in what state?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Piedmont}{\_Sardinia
\par c.\tab Cavour founded this appropriately-titled revolutionary paper in 1848.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\i Il }{\b\i\ul Risorgimento}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {11. Identify the secret police of the following civilizations, 15 points each.
\par a.\tab Romulans\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Tal Shiar}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab Cardassians\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Obsidian Order}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {12. Identify these British cities or towns from descriptions, for the stated number of points.
\par 5:\tab The second largest city in England.\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Birmingham}{
\par 10:\tab This city is on the British end of the Chunnel.\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Dover}{
\par 10:\tab This city mentioned in }{\i Hair}{\~is due east of Liverpool.\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Manchester}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {5:\tab Shakespeare was born in this city.\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Stratford-upon-Avon}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {13. Answer the following questions about particle physics for ten points each.
\par a.\tab Of the three main particles in an atom, which has the smallest mass?
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul electron}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab How many different kinds of quarks are there?
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul six}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab What is the spin number of all leptons and quarks, making them fermions?
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul one-half}{ or 0}{\b\ul .5}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 14. Given a religion, identify the continent on which it has the greatest number of members, 10 points each.
\par a.\tab Roman Catholicism\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul South America}{
\par b.\tab Protestant (includes Methodist, Baptist, etc.)\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul North America}{
\par c. \tab Judaism\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul North America}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {15. You know your Shakespeare, but do you know your other Elizabethan playwrights? Given the Elizabethan play, name its author, 10 each.
\par a.\tab }{\i The Spanish Tragedy}{\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Thomas }{\b\ul Kyd}{
\par b.\tab }{\i The Jew of Malta}{\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Christopher }{\b\ul Marlowe}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab }{\i Sejanus and Catiline}{\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Ben }{\b\ul Jonson}{
\par 
\par 16. AUDIO BONUS.
\par 30-20-10. Identify the common title.
\par 30:\tab [Clip #1: \ldblquote I heard a voice from heaven\rdblquote , as set by Herbert Howells]
\par 20:\tab [Clip #2: \ldblquote In Paradisum\rdblquote , as set by Maurice Durufl\'e9]
\par 10:\tab [Clip #3: \ldblquote Dies Irae\rdblquote , as set by Giuseppe Verdi]
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul Requiem
\par }{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {17. For 5 points, who was sued by Texas cattlemen for saying on TV that she would \ldblquote never eat another hamburger?\rdblquote 
\par ANSWER: Oprah }{\b\ul Winfrey}{
\par This comment was related to the presence of \ldblquote mad cow disease\rdblquote , or BSE. Five points per word, what does BSE stand for?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\ul Bovine Spongiform Encephalophathy}{
\par For a final 10 points, American farmers won a battle against the EU when what organization ruled the EU\rquote s ban on American beef unjustifiable?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: }{\b\ul W}{orld }{\b\ul T}{rade }{\b\ul O}{rganization
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {18. For the stated number of points, given the culture, identify the god.
\par 5:\tab Greek goddess of wisdom \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Athena}{
\par 10:\tab Roman goddess of wisdom\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Minerva}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {15:\tab Egyptian god of learning\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Thoth}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {19. Pencil and paper ready. Consider the following series of numbers: 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21.
\par Answer the following questions, for 10 points each. }{\i You will have 10 seconds per part for (a) and (b).}{
\par a.\tab What is the mode of the above series of numbers?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 1}{
\par b.\tab What is the median?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul 6.5}{\~[= (5 + 8)/2]
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab The mean of the above data is 6.75. What term is given to the amount by which an average value differs from the mean, here 6.61?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul standard deviation}{
\par \page 20. Identify the Herman Melville character from a description, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {a.\tab A former postal service employee who \ldblquote prefers not to\rdblquote  leave his office despite his boss's fervent pleas, this character eventually starves because he also prefers not to eat.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Bartleby}{ the Scrivener
\par b.\tab A hot-headed but loyal sailor who kills a superior for suggesting he was planning a mutiny.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Billy Budd}{
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c.\tab The deposed captain of the San Dominick, this character saves himself from bloodthirsty slaves by leaping from his ship into a whaleboat piloted by Captain Delano. 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Benito Cereno}{
\par 
\par 21. Answer these questions about the Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr., for the stated number of points.
\par 5:\tab King was born in this city, and attended Morehouse College there.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Atlanta}{, GA
\par 10:\tab While jailed in this city, King wrote a letter that explained his nonviolence stance.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Birmingham}{, AL
\par 15:\tab King organized this civil rights organization, that met with Nehru in India in 1958.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul S}{outhern }{\b\ul C}{hristian }{\b\ul L}{eadership }{\b\ul C}{onference
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {22. Answer the following questions about Paddington Bear for 10 points each.
\par a.\tab How did he get the name paddington?
\par \tab ANSWER: from a }{\b\ul railroad}{ station in London
\par b.\tab What is his favorite food?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul orange marmalade}{
\par c.\tab What is Paddington\rquote s standard attire?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\tab ANSWER: a }{\b\ul blue coat}{ and }{\b\ul yellow hat}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {23. Given the soul song, FTP, name the original artist. 
\par a. \tab \ldblquote Papa was a Rolling Stone\rdblquote \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: The }{\b\ul Temptations}{
\par b. \tab \ldblquote Can\rquote t Help Myself (Sugar Pie Honey Bunch)\rdblquote \tab \tab ANSWER: The}{\b\ul  Four Tops}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {c. \tab \ldblquote Do Right Woman-Do Right Man\rdblquote \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Aretha }{\b\ul Franklin}{
\par }{\b\ul 
\par 
\par }{\fs24 \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1915\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VII. }{\fs24 Round X.\tab Page \chpgn  of 4
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }}