{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\ul\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{
\s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext20 Bonus First Line;}{\s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid 
\sbasedon0 \snext21 Bonus Part;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1377289\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc3\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }
{\listname ;}\listid2}{\list\listtemplateid67698709\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc3\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid733940199}
}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid733940199\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator Ramin Fatehi}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy5\hr23\min37}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy5\hr23\min37}
{\printim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr17\min11}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords3278}{\nofchars18686}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws22947}{\vern113}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 
\fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round X.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\lang1024 3}}}{ of 7
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1999 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.}{
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 9: TOSSUPS}{\fs24 

\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round 9.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\lang1024 5}}}{ of 7
\par }}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {1. Discovered in 1846, the methane gas-laden atmosphere and red-light absorption of this planet help provide its distinctive blue hue. More recently, in 1989, Voyager II detected 700 mph 
winds as well as its stormy Great Dark Spot. FTP, name this planet, named after the Roman god of the sea.
\par  ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Neptune}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 2. His first name, revealed in only one episode, was Angus, which explains why he never used it. His nemesis was Murdock, while his friends included the ne\rquote 
er-do-well pilot Jack Dalton and his employer at the Phoenix Foundation, Pete Thornton, who went blind by the time the show was canceled. FTP, name this Richard Dean Anderson character, famous for using his scientific knowledge to 
gimmick his way out of sticky situations.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul MacGyver}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {3. It was originally located on two small islands in Lake Texcoco; but it gradually spread into the surrounding lake. In this ancient capital, the wisest and strongest leaders of each calpulli con
stituted a city council that then selected four main members. One of these was then selected to be tlatoani (tla-toe-ah-nee), the leader of the city. FTP, name this Aztec capital located near Mexico City.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Tenochtitlan}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {4. Chopped pork shoulder meat
 with ham meat added. Salt (for binding, flavor, and firmness), Water (to help in mixing), Sugar (for flavor), and Sodium Nitrite (for color and as a preservative) are the sole ingredients in this food. It contains no calcium or vitamins A or C but a heft
y serving of fat and sodium. FTP, give the name of this popular Hormel product whose name is short for \ldblquote Spiced Ham.\rdblquote \line ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Spam}{ 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {5. This technique provides the most significant tool in modern chemistry, according to some. It also is important in medical 
imaging. It is based on discoveries by Felix Bloch of Stanford and Edward M. Purcell of Harvard, who won the 1952 Nobel Prize for discovering nuclear induction, whereby unpaired nucleons create a magnetic moment arising from the angular momentum of their 
spinning.\line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Magnetic Resonance Imaging}{ or }{\b\ulw Magnetic Resonance Microscopy
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {(Prompt on \ldblquote MRI\rdblquote ) or }{\b\ul  Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Imaging}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {
\par 6. Well behind other companies that do lots of mail order business, this company belatedly initiated its web site in Dec
ember 1998. Much thought went into designing the new web store to prevent non-buying browsing customers from taking up valuable bandwidth on the company\rquote 
s link to the Internet. Given the nature of the products they sell in over 800 retail stores, this is not surprising. FTP identify this lingerie company that distributes catalogs depicting scantily clad women.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Victoria\rquote s Secret}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {7. She\rquote s quite the muse, though not one of those famous nine sisters. She inspired a composition by Offenbach, which in tu
rn prompted paintings by Toulouse-Lautrec. Her plight is good for artistic depiction, as she was forced to remain in the underworld when her musically talented but nitwit husband, Orpheus, looked back despite being told not to. FTP, name her.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Eurydice}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 8. Encouraged by Liszt and influenced by Chopin and German Romantics like Schumann, this songwriter first gained fame for his incidental music for Ibsen's drama }{\i Peer Gynt}{
 in 1875. Later, he earned greater recognition for pieces like his }{\i Piano Concerto in A Minor}{ and }{\i Holberg Suite}{. FTP, name this composer, who demonstrated a distinct harmonic style evocative of Norwegian folk music.
\par ANSWER:\tab Edvard }{\b\ul Grieg}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {9. Hyracotherium, or Eohippus, Mesohippus, Parahippus, and up through Equus (Ek-wus). As they evolv
ed, they developed longer legs and their third digit elongated as the rest shrank. They became extinct in North America in about 10,000 BC, but were reintroduced by Spanish explorers several centuries ago. FTP name this type of animal that young girls ten
d to adore and are sometimes worth a kingdom.\line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Horse}{s (acc. additional information, such as \ldblquote ancient horses\rdblquote  or alternatively \ldblquote equines\rdblquote )
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {10. This ancient country arose in the 14}{\super th}{ century BCE and soon became a major power in Mesopotamia and Armenia
. After 1208 BCE, it experienced some decline, but a resurgence in 9th century BC saw them unite most of the Middle East, from Egypt to the Persian Gulf before it met its final end in 609 BCE. The kingdom\rquote 
s great rulers included Sargon II and Ashurbanipal and its great cities included Ashur, and Nimrud. FTP, identify this long gone civilization, whose capital was at Nineveh.
\par ANSWER: \tab }{\b\ul Assyria}{ 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {
\par 11. Apparently, James Monroe\rquote s nose wasn\rquote t the only big thing about presidency. His first landslide election ushere
d in a period of sweeping American nationalism following the War of 1812 against the British. FTP, identify this amicably-named period between 1816-20, whose name was coined in a Boston newspaper.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Era of }{\b\ul Good Feelings}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {12. Its author was fascinated by the idea of composing a series of free-verse epitaphs in the form of monologues. In it, former frustrated inhabitants of the work\rquote 
s fictitious namesake speak from the graves of their bitter, unfulfilled lives in the dreary confines of a small town. FTP, name this collection of poems, the best-known work of Edgar Lee Masters.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Spoon River Anthology}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 13. A landlocked country with an extensive river system, three-quarters of its land is covered with chernozem, an exceptionally fertile soil ideal for
 agriculture. It was the second-smallest Soviet republic, after Armenia, and it is bordered on the north, east, and south by the Ukraine and on the west by Romania. FTP, name this republic with its capital at its largest city, Chisnau.
\par ANSWER:\tab Republic of }{\b\ul Moldova}{
\par 
\par 14. He only lived to the age of thirty-seven, but in that time this great artist enjoyed the patronage of many, including the Pope. He is famous for his works }{\i The Crucifixion}{, the }{\i Entombment of Christ}{, and many Madonnas, including }{\i 
Madonna of the Goldfinch}{, the }{\i Sistine Madonna}{, and the }{\i Alba Madonna}{. For ten points, name this painter of the four walls of the Stanza della Segnatura, one of which is the famed }{\i School of Athens}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Raphael}{ Sanzio
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {15. Catholics often reported that the victim luckily
 fell into a bed of straw, saving his life. Protestants attested that the man actually fell into manure. Cited as the immediate cause of the Thirty Years\rquote 
 War, name, FTP, this May 23, 1618 incident where Bohemian Protestants tossed a Catholic man out of a tower window in protest of Holy Roman Emperor Ferdinand II\rquote s revocation of religious freedoms.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab The }{\b\ul Defenestration of Prague}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {16. Considered the author\rquote s supreme accomplishment because of the rigorous simplicity of its organization, the emotional po
wer of its language, and the profusion of its images and meanings, the title character is consumed by an incestuous passion for her stepson, Hippolytus. This love ultimately destroys them both, all because she thought her husband Theseus was dead. FTP, na
me this play by French playwright Jean Racine.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Phaedra}{\ul\cf1 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {17. This running back was drafted in 1987 out of Texas Tech and spent the regular season quietly backing up players like George Rogers and Kelvin Bryant. By 1991, he was out of football for goo
d. In between, all he did was set a Super Bowl record that still stands. FTP, name the Redskins rookie who came out of nowhere to rush for a record 204 yards in Super Bowl 22.\line ANSWER:\tab Timmy }{\b\ul Smith}{\line 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {18. }{\cf1 Kurt Vonnegut said that he was \ldblquote programmed at fifty to perform childishly\rdblquote 
 and illustrated this book with pictures of underpants, guns, flags, and a bomb dropped on Hamburg, Germany inscribed with the words, \ldblquote Goodbye, Blue Monday.\rdblquote 
 Featuring his recurring character, Kilgore Trout, name this novel whose title is used to describe a well-known brand of General Mills breakfast cereal.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul\cf1 Breakfast of Champions}{\i\ul\cf1 
\par }{\cf1 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {19. Despite the recent trend in declining murder rates, this U.S. city has surpassed 300 deaths annually since 1990. Near the end of last year, Police 
Commissioner Thomas C. Frazier released 60-100 police officers from their desks in a desperate but vain effort to keep the numbers down. FTP, name this city, led by Mayor Kurt Schmoke, home to Camden Yards.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Baltimore}{, Maryland
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {20. They have flavor
s and colors, but cannot be tasted or seen. These particles compose all hadrons, including protons and neutrons. They exhibit spin and have mass, though do not appear to be made up of smaller particles. It was proposed in 1964, though accelerators have no
t yet been able to knock one out of a baryon. FTP, name these particles that share their James Joyce-derived name with a character on }{\i Star Trek: Deep Space Nine}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw quark}{s
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {21. He was born in Natal province in 1903. In 1935, he became the director of the Diepkloof Reformatory for delinquent urban boys, yet he is best known for his writing. Some of his lesser works include }{\i 
Too Late the Phalarope}{ and }{\i Ah, But Your Land Is Beautiful}{. For ten points, name this South African whose experiences as director of the reformatory led him to write his masterpiece, }{\i Cry, the}{ }{\i Beloved Country}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab Alan }{\b\ul Paton}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 
\par 22. This number is the prime tool of macroeconomists to measure the amount of economic growth in a country. Critics of its use cite the fact that one cannot tel
l from it whether economic and social conditions are actually better or worse than before. It is merely a tally of products and services bought and sold, with no distinctions between transactions that add to societal well-being and those that diminish it.
 FTP, identify the sum of a country\rquote s consumption spending, investment spending, government spending, and net exports within its own borders.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Gross Domestic Product }{or }{\b\ul GDP}{
\par 
\par \page 23. At the age of 80, this man began his last journey. Before he died, he asked the monks with him whether they had any final questions. After that, he spoke: \ldblquote 
Then, bhikkhus, I address you now: transient are conditioned things. Try to accomplish your aim with diligence.\rdblquote  According to most traditions, however, this individual had
 lived many lives before he was born as Gautama. FTP identify the title associated with this person who achieved nirvana.
\par ANSWER:\tab the }{\b\ul Buddha}{ (prompt on early buzz with Gotama)
\par 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page }{\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 9: BONI}{\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VIII. }{\fs24 Round 9.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24  PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\fs24\lang1024 6}}}{\fs24  of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\fs24\lang1024 9}}}{\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {1. }{\cgrid0 Answer these questions about works by prize winning Texas author Larry McMurtry for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 a.\tab This novel centers on high school football players Duane and Sonny, who have an affair with the coach\rquote s wife. Events are set against the imminent closing of the town
\rquote s oldest movie theatre. The movie version starred Cybil Shepard and Jeff Bridges.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Last Picture Show}{\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 b.\tab Book featuring the old Western exploits of Gus, Captain Call, Peaeye, and Deets, seeking to recapture their old Texas Ranger glory days with one last cattle drive to Montana.

\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Lonesome Dove}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 c.\tab This sequel to }{\i\cgrid0 The Last Picture Show}{\cgrid0  brings back the now aged Duane and Sonny for the town\rquote 
s centennial celebration. Except now Sonny has neurological problems and Duane\rquote s children are sent back from Bible camp for putting LSD into the preachers\rquote  oatmeal.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Texasville}{\i\ul 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {2. \ldblquote I bet I can answer anything you ask me about the nervous system,\rdblquote  you say? Well, all right. Neur-on. For ten points each, answer these neuron questions.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab What is the positive feedback loop-induced depolarization of the neuron\rquote s cell membrane when it has reached a certain threshold called?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ul action potential}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab For five points each, what are the two ions that play a critical role in the action potential?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw sodium}{ (Na++) and }{\b\ulw potassium}{ (K++)
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab What is the pause prior to the regeneration of a cell\rquote s ability to have another action potential called?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ul refractory period}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {3. For ten points each, name these prophets of Greek literature.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab With appearances as a happy orgy-goer in }{\i The Bacchae}{, a stern warner of }{\i Oedipus Rex}{, and a damned shade in }{\i The Inferno}{
, this gender-switching prophet may be the classical king of literary cameos.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Teiresias}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab Despite her awesome powers of foresight, this prophet is cursed by the perpetual disbelief of her doomed listeners.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Cassandra}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Poseidon \ldblquote borrows the guise\rdblquote  of this }{\i Iliad}{ prophet to encourage both Ajaxes in the face of the Trojan onslaught on Greek ships.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Calchas}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {4. For ten points each, identify the 19th century classical composer.
\par a.\tab  He won immediate international success with the Slavonic Dances Op.46, but his most familiar work is probably the playful \ldblquote Humoresque.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Antonin }{\b\ul Dvorak}{ [Dev-or-jak]
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab With his gruff idiosyncrasies tol
erated by those who valued his genius, he occupied the same position as the one once held by Beethoven in Vienna. Like Dvorak with his series of Slavonic Dances, he wrote a series of Hungarian Dances.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Johannes }{\b\ul Brahms}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab When this composer of }{\i 1812 Overture}{
 was very young, he kissed the map of Russia and then spat on the other countries. Upon his nurse's reminder that she herself was French, he replied sweetly, \ldblquote Yes, I covered France with my hands.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Peter Ilyich }{\b\ul Tchaikovsky}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {5. Answer the following about the play, }{\i The Crucible}{, for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab First, for 5, identify the author. 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qj\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \fs20\ul\cgrid {\fs22\ulnone ANSWER:\tab Arthur }{\b\fs22 Miller}{\fs22\ulnone 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab For 15, name the West Indian slave who supposedly started the witchcraft.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Tituba}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Lastly, for 10, name the main character of the play who, along with his wife, was among those accused of witchcraft by a group of girls led by Abigail.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab John }{\b\ul Proctor}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {6. Answer these questions regarding Winston Churchill\rquote s \ldblquote Iron Curtain\rdblquote  speech FTSNP:
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab For 5, in what year did Churchill deliver this speech?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab March 5, }{\b\ul 1946}{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab FTP, name the college or city where he spoke.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Westminster}{\b  }{College in }{\b\ul Fulton}{, Missouri
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab For 15, name either of the two cities named as termini of the Iron Curtain.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab \ldblquote From }{\b\ul Stettin}{ in the Baltic to }{\b\ul Trieste}{ in the Adriatic, an iron curtain has descended across the continent.\rdblquote  [accept grudgingly Szczecin, Poland for Stettin]

\par 
\par 7. Do you watch the TV show }{\i Friends}{ as obsessively as I do? When the theme song comes on, do you \ldblquote clap\rdblquote  to the music?
 Then this is a question for you! The six friends share five last names among them. For five points each, with a five point bonus for all five, give the five different last names of the six friends. There\rquote 
s no need to match the last names with the first.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Bing}{, }{\b\ul Buffay}{, }{\b\ul Geller}{, }{\b\ul Green}{, }{\b\ul Tribbiani}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {8. FTPE, identify the following German political figures who have recently been in the news.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab The former Chancellor of German Unity and leader of the Christian Democrats who led the party to its worst defeat in half a century.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Helmut }{\b\ul Kohl}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab The newly elected leader of the Christian Democrats.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Wolfgang }{\b\ul Schauble}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab The leader of the Social Democrats who ended Kohl's 16 year reign.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Gerhard }{\b\ul Schroder}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {9. Name the monastic military order active during the Crusades for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab They were the first military order, who founded themselves against the Pope\rquote 
s wishes to defend the pilgrimage routes to the holy land. They derived their name from their headquarters\rquote  near proximity to a site in Jerusalem.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Knights Templar}{ or }{\b\ul Poor Knights of Christ and of the Temple of Solomon}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab This order pioneered the modern conception of a hospital in its care of sick pilgrims, but its mission of healing the sick eventually took a back seat to less
 pacific activities. They manned the formidable Crac Des Chevaliers castle. After the fall of the Holy Land, they became the Knights of Malta.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Hospitallers}{ of St. John of Jerusalem
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Though they fought in the Holy Land, this order\rquote s main crusades 
were against pagans in Prussia and the Baltic. Pioneers in German colonization of the east, Hitler considered himself their spiritual successor. Their castle headquarters in K\'f6nigsburg was destroyed in the closing days of World War II.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Teutonic}{ knights
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright { }{\cf1 
\par }{
\par 10. If little kids hate being copied, they\rquote d be even more pissed off as butterflies, the very models of mimicry. But it isn\rquote t all the same.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab What kind of butterfly copies the coloration of a dangerous butterfly and also has the same defensive mechanisms?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Mullerian}{ mimcry
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab What kind lacks the defensive features but still have the colors?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Batesian}{ mimicry
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab What do you call the one in a Batesian relationship that has the defensive features?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw model}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {11. Some of the coolest planes ever made, the X-planes were meant for experimental purposes. FTP each, give the numerical designation of the X plane described.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab  This aircraft was made by Bell and painted orange. Chuck Yeager piloted it when it became the first plane to go faster than the speed of sound.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab X-}{\b\ul 1}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab This black aircraft with stubby wings landed on skids and went faster than Mach 5. One of them now hangs in the lobby of the National Air and Space Museum.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab X-}{\b\ul 15}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab This plane was meant to pave the way for new hyper-maneuverable aircraft, but the design was highly unstable and required numerous computers to keep the plane in the air.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab X-}{\b\ul 29}{
\par }{\b\ulw 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {12. For five points each, name any six of the European countries that came into existence as a result of World War I.
\par }\pard \fi-1440\li1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Poland}{, }{\b\ul Estonia}{, }{\b\ul Latvia}{, }{\b\ul Lithuania}{, }{\b\ul Finland}{, }{\b\ul Austria}{, }{\b\ul Hungary}{, }{\b\ul Czechoslovakia}{, }{\b\ul Turkey}{, }{\b\ul Yugoslavia
}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {13. How much do you know about fashion? I'll give you the name of a designer, and you'll tell me which fashion house he works for, 10 points each. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {a.\tab Karl Lagerfeld\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Chanel}{
\par b.\tab Tom Ford\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Gucci}{
\par c.\tab Alexander McQueen\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul Givenchy}{ (gee-von-she)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {14. }{\cgrid0 Name capitals of these countries FTPE. 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Liechtenstein\tab \tab }{\cgrid0 ANSWER:}{\tab }{\b\ul\cgrid0 V}{\b\ul aduz}{\cgrid0 
\par }{b.\tab }{\cgrid0 Botswana}{\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Gaborone}{\cgrid0 
\par }{c.\tab Mauritania\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul\cgrid0 N}{\b\ul ouakchott}{
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {15. For ten points each, answer these questions about the Thornton Wilder play, }{\i The Skin of Our Teeth}{.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab This New Jersey suburb, which shares its name with a packaging product line, is the Antrobus family's hometown.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Excelsior}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab This actress occasionally steps out of her role as Sabina to address the audience and complain about the play.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Miss \-}{\b\ul Somerset}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab At the start of Act III, the absence of several actors is explained as being due to this problem.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul food poisoning}{ or }{\b\ul ptomaine poisoning}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {16. Name the composers of the following operas. If you get it on the first clue you\rquote ll get 10 points; if you need an additional clue, you\rquote ll only get five.
\par a.\tab 10:\tab }{\i Idomeneo }{
\par }\pard \s21\li360\widctlpar\adjustright {5:\tab }{\i The Magic Flute}{ 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Wolfgang Amadeus }{\b\ul Mozart}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab 10:\tab }{\i Gianni Schicci}{
\par }\pard \s21\li360\widctlpar\adjustright {5:\tab }{\i Tosca}{
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Giacomo }{\b\ul Puccini}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab 10:\tab }{\i Alessandro}{
\par }\pard \s21\li360\widctlpar\adjustright {5:\tab }{\i Julius Caeser}{ 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER: George Frideric }{\b\ul Handel}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {17. What is an acid? What is a base? What is the meaning of life? Fortunately, the first two questions have only three possible noteworthy answers. 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab FTP, who said an acid is anything delivering hydrogen to a solution and a base is anything delivering hydroxide ions?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Arrhenius}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab FTP, whose theory said an acid is a substance from which a proton can be removed and a base is a substance that can remove a proton from an acid.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Bronsted-Lowry}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab FTP, who said an acid gains an electron and a base has an electron lost?
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Lewis}{
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {18. If you think flying coach is rough, try being Ulysses. For ten points each, name these vile things encountered on his trip.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab a rather violent Cyclops
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Polyphemus}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab a six-headed monster that eats the ship's crew members
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Scylla}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab A sea-nymph who becomes enamored of our young hero and absolutely refuses to let him go
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Calypso}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {19. Answer these related questions about basketball for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {5:\tab This legendary Kentucky coach, known as The Baron, was college basketball\rquote s winningest until Dean Smith broke his record.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Adolph }{\b\ul Rupp}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {10:\tab When this former star Nuggets center took over the Denver head coaching job in 1992, he named Rupp as one of his idols and honored him by wearing a brown suit, Rupp\rquote 
s trademark, for his first game.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Dan }{\b\ul Issel}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {15:\tab Issel said his other idol was this well-traveled former Nugg
ets coach, who had played for and coached 5 different ABA teams before joining Denver. This coach was known for his lack of fashion sense, so Issel \ldblquote honored\rdblquote  him in his first game by wearing black shoes with the brown suit.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Doug }{\b\ul Moe}{\line 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {20. Answer these questions about an 1872 American scandal, for fifteen points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab 
Originally the Pennsylvania Fiscal Agency, it was purchased and renamed by several principal stockholders of the Union Pacific Railroad. It was eventually discovered that this constru
ction company grossly overcharged the government, resulting in a 500% increase in stockholder dividends between 1867 and 1868. For 15 points, name it.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright \fs22 {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul\cf1 Credit Mobilier}{\cf1 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab For another fifteen points, name the congressman from Massachusetts and stockh
older of both the Union Pacific Railroad and Credit Mobilier, who attempted to stave off a congressional investigation by distributing Credit Mobilier stock among his colleagues. In 1872, the New York Sun published a list of the bribe-takers with this man
\rquote s incriminating letters, and he was finally censured by Congress in 1873. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab Oakes }{\b\ul\cf1 Ames}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {21. Answer these questions about anthropology, for 15 points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab From the French word meaning \ldblquote to hatch,\rdblquote  this is a widespread custom among primitive people
s in which a father, around the time of the birth of the child, takes to bed or complains of labor pains, and is accorded the treatment usually shown to women during pregnancy or after childbirth. For 15 points, name this practice.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul couvade}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab This 
American anthropologist, who studied the patterns of child-rearing in many cultures, was one of the many anthropologists who have studied and commented on this social phenomenon. For 15 poits, name the author of }{\i Growing up in New Guinea}{.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Margaret }{\b\ul Mead}{
\par 
\par 22. Calculate the volume of the following objects if it exists FTP each.  You can say \ldblquote times pi\rdblquote  rather than attempting to multiply by 3.141 etc.  You have 15 seconds per part.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 A.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2\pnrnot0\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls2\adjustright {A sphere with a radius of 3 meters.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw 36 times pi}{ cubic meters (about 113.1)
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 B.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2\pnrnot0\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls2\adjustright {
A cone with a diameter of 2 meters and a height of 3 meters
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw pi}{ cubic meters
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 C.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2\pnrnot0\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls2\adjustright {
A triangular prism with base sides of length 4, 5, and 10 meters and a height of 5 meters
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw <no answer>}{ (it cannot exist, there is no triangle with these side lengths)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {23. For ten points each, identify the following about a popular modern philosopher
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Who said, \ldblquote As an advocate of reason, egoism and capitalism, I seek to reach the men of the intellect - wherever such may still be found.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Ayn }{\b\ul Rand}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab What is the name of the philosophy this person espouses?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul objectivism}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab And last, what is the three-letter acronym that identifies the center that promotes this philosophy.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul ARI}{
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }}