{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times;}{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f28\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f29\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f31\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f32\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f33\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\adjustright \f2\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Preformatted;}{\s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext21 Body Text 2;}{
\s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext22 Bonus Part;}{\s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon22 \snext23 Bonus First Line;}{\*\cs24 \additive \fs16 \sbasedon10 annotation reference;}{
\s25\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext25 annotation text;}{\s26\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext26 Plain Text;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1067623440\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc3
\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid474373977}{\list\listtemplateid2059597878\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid1935700470}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid474373977\listoverridecount0\ls1}
{\listoverride\listid1935700470\listoverridecount0\ls2}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator Victor Kao}{\creatim\yr1999\mo2\dy2\hr23\min27}{\revtim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr17\min26}{\printim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr17\min26}{\version21}{\edmins83}{\nofpages9}
{\nofwords3273}{\nofchars18659}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale75 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header 
\pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round X.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 3}}}{ of 7
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 6: TOSSUPS}{\fs24 

\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \sect }\sectd \margtsxn1530\sbknone\linex0\headery810\footery605\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VIII. }{\fs24 Round 6.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst {
\fs24  PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\fs24\lang1024 2}}}{\fs24  of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs19\fs24  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\cs19\fs24\lang1024 9}}}{\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 1. We each have twelve pairs of them. They are both motor and sensory and do things ranging from seeing to swallowing. In medical school, you\rquote 
ll have to memorize them, using a mnemonic beginning with three Oh\rquote s and ending with V-A-H. FTP, name these nerves that go directly into the brain, bypassing the spinal cord.\line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\fs22\ulw cranial}{\fs22  nerves
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par 2. In 1702, at age 18, he moved to Paris, painting cheap devotional pictures for a living. After pla
cing 2nd in the 1709 Prix de Rome, he received important commissions before dying of tuberculosis in 1721. His delicate, graceful style was influenced by the Venetian school and Flemish painters like Rubens. FTP, name this French Rococo painter, whose fav
orite subjects were fashionable outdoor gatherings, and whose works include }{\i The Dance}{ and }{\i Embarkment for Cythera}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab (Jean-)Antoine }{\b\ul Watteau}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {3. It was begun in 1925 by the }{\i Louisville Courier-Journal}{ with just nine contestants from different sections of
 the nation. Of the 74 national champions, 41 were female and 33 were male. Scripps-Howard acquired the rights to the program in 1941, and continues to control it to this day. FTP identify this annual event that was won by an absurdly enthusiastic Jamaica
n in 1998.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul National Spelling Bee}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 
4. Preheat oven to 450 degrees. Cream one-quarter cup butter and 1 cup brown sugar, then beat in 3 eggs. Stir in one-half cup light corn syrup, 1 cup broken pecans, 1 teaspoon vanilla, and one-half teaspoon salt. Fi
ll pie shell and bake for 40 minutes. These are the directions to prepare, FTP, what well-liked and very sweet Southern pie?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul pecan}{ pie (accept variants, but the answer must include "pecan\rdblquote )
\par 
\par 5.  Its name is derived from a verb meaning "to read" or "to recite." It refers to itself to as \ldblquote the well-preserved tablet,\rdblquote 
 and in its written form it is accepted as the earthly reproduction of an uncreated and eternal heavenly original. It is held in high es
teem as the ultimate authority in all matters legal and religious and is generally regarded as infallible in all respects. In fact, it is a sacrilige even to imitate its style. FTP, identify this Arabic book of Islamic scripture.
\par ANSWER:\tab The }{\b\ul Koran}{ (or }{\b\ul Qur`an}{)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 6. During the fateful Bay of Pigs invasion, Cuban aircraft quickly took out two of the United States\rquote 
 most important supply ships, eliminating the flow of supplies to the invaders and contributing significantly to the failure of the mission. FTP, name
 either of these two ships, one of which shares a name with a Texan city, and the other which sounds like a hard-to-locate Spanish moving body of water. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Rio Escondido}{ or }{\b\ul Houston}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 7. His principle is behind hydraulics and other useful devices. It s
tates that a change in pressure in a fluid is transmitted undiminished to the entire fluid and to the walls of the contianing vessle. Appropriately enough, he got a unit of pressure named after him equal to 1 Newton acting over 1 square meter. He also len
ds his name to an introductory Macintosh programming language\line ANSWER:\tab  Blaise }{\b\fs22\ulw Pascal}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par \page 8. At 16,066 feet above sea level, it was discovered by Lincoln Ellsworth and his pilot, Herbert Hollick-Kenyon, in 1935. Fittingly, it is located in the Sentinel Range i
n the Ellsworth Mountains, and it overlooks the Ronne Ice Shelf. Unlike many other high peaks, however, it is unlikely that many people have seen this one. FTP identify the highest peak in Antarctica, whose massif slopes to the northwest.
\par ANSWER:\tab Mount }{\b\ul Vinson}{ (Massif)
\par 
\par 9. Born in 1982 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, this person is coached by Megal Faulkner and Craig Maurizi. Upon realizing their daughter\rquote s potential, her family moved to the Detroit area. She weights just 90 pounds and stands only 5 feet tall
, but she has still accumulated world, national, and Olympic titles. FTP identify this girl who won brought home the figure skating gold in Nagano.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 ANSWER:\tab Tara Kristin }{\b\f0\ul Lipinski}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 
10. This person was said to be married to Cercolas, a wealthy individual from the island of Andros. It's probable that the couple was banished along with other aristocrats, by the lyric poetry that nonetheless resulted was said to exceed that of nearly al
l Greek poets in entering into a close relationship with the reader. FTP name this poet from Lesbos.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Sappho}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {11. He first garnered international attention in 1757 when he published}{\i  A Philosophical Enquiry into the Origin of Our Ideas of the Sublime and Beautiful}{
. He is not, however, primarily known for his aesthetic works. He was secretary to the Marquess of Rockingham for 17 years and worked in the House of Commons to solidify support behind his Whig faction. He opposed George III\rquote s attempts to augm
ent royal power and supported the American Revolution. FTP identify this political thinker who greatly opposed the revolution across the channel in his }{\i Reflections on the Revolution in France}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab Edmund }{\b\ul Burke}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 12. This Middle Eastern nation seems like
 a lovely place to visit, as it has been in the news recently for a spate of foreign kidnappings perpetrated by disgruntled tribesmen. On January 17, they kidnapped two Britons and four Dutchmen, and on January 27, three Germans were captured in the same 
area. As if the threat of kidnapping weren\rquote t enough, it seems the country\rquote 
s pet control has gotten out of hand as well. FTP, name this Arabian country, where in November three men died and a fourth was critically injured after being overwhelmed by fumes from a stinking dead cat.   
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Yemen}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {13. Born in 1890 to Polish parents and educated at the Imperial Dancing Academy in St. Petersburg, he later became a member of the original Ballets Russes under Sergei Diaghilev. He attained the rank of premier dans
eur and was the first to portray the leading roles in }{\i Petroushka}{, }{\i Sh\'e9herazade}{, and }{\i Les sylphides}{. FTP, name this unconventional Russian dancer who choreographed }{\i The Afternoon of a Faun}{ and }{\i The Rite of Spring}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab Vaslav }{\b\ul Nijinsky}{
\par 
\par 14
. John Wozniak, the singer/song-writer for this band, lived in Minneapolis during the 70s. There he attended an experimental hippy elementary school after which the band was named. Wozniak had one particularly strong memory of the day when he stared out o
f a school window down onto the playground, anticipating his afternoon date with a couple of bullies. FTP, name this 3-piece band with the hit song, \ldblquote Sex and Candy.\rdblquote 
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Marcy Playground}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 15. Herodotus definitively placed it on Mount Mycale, but for se
curity it was later moved to a location near Ephesus but returned to the mountain in 373 BC. For ten points, name this location, the meeting place of the twelve member-cities of the Ionian League.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Panionium}{
\par 
\par 16. The museum in his former Paris home 
contains many of his original experimental materials, including some of the tartaric acid with which he demonstrated optical isomerism, swan-neck flasks with which he disproved the theory of spontaneous generation, and the spinal cords of rabbits afflicte
d with rabies, with which he produced a vaccine against that disease. FTP, name this founder of germ theory who also developed the anthrax vaccine.
\par ANSWER:\tab  Louis }{\b\ulw Pasteur}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {17. Though it was not discovered until Clemens Winkler isolated it in 1886, this element\rquote 
s properties had been accurately predicted in 1871 by Dmitri Mendeleev (men-duh-LAY-ehv), who called it ekasilicon (eck-uh-SIL-i-con). His predictions were based on the properties of carbon and silicon, the two elements above it on the periodic table. 
FTP, name this element, atomic number 32, which is used in making transistors and diodes.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Germanium}{ (jer-MAY-nee-um)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 18. He was an outspoken advocate of a human-centered morality. He went to the University of Toulouse in 1546 to study law, where he met his friend \'c9tienne de La Bo\'e9
tie. Later, he also served as the mayor of Bordeaux and wrote a travel journal of his voyages in Germany and Italy. FTP, name this man, whose 107-chapter work on various subjects, the book known as }{\i Essais }{(}{\i Essays}{) establi
shed a new literary form.
\par ANSWER:\tab Michel de }{\b\ul Montaigne
\par }{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {19. Although born in Rhode Island in 1933, his most respected works are chiefly western. Critics consider his finest work to be }{\i Blood Meridian}{, first of his western novels. Using extensive, untranslate
d passages of Spanish, name, FTP, the author of the acclaimed, best-selling Border Trilogy, beginning in Texas with the novel, }{\i All the Pretty Horses}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab Cormac }{\b\ul McCarthy}{
\par 
\par 20. Anarchist Alexander Berkman attempted to assassinate him in 1892, but was cap
tured after shooting him in the neck and thigh, stabbing him in the leg with a poisoned knife, and attempting to blow himself and his victim up by biting a mercury fulminate capsule. Nevertheless, this man escaped without permanent harm, and went on to fo
und a New York art gallery. FTP, name this assistant to Andrew Carnegie whose failed assassination turned American public opinion against the Homestead strike.
\par ANSWER:\tab Henry Clay }{\b\ul Frick}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {21. Oxford expelled this future scholar-explorer in 1842. The first Eur
opean to enter the forbidden city of Harar, Ethiopia, he also discovered Lake Tanganyika. He wrote 43 volumes on his travels and 30 volumes of translated Eastern works, including many tomes of erotica. FTP, name this translator who attacked the sexual con
ventions of his day and brought }{\i The Arabian Nights}{ to the West.
\par ANSWER:\tab Sir Richard Francis }{\b\ul Burton}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {22. This emperor of the Qing dynasty led China in one of its most successful campaigns of expansion. A patron of the arts, he particularly favored cloisonne.
 Reigning for over fifty years, he was the only emperor to pass on the throne before his death, because he did not want to surpass the reign of his grandfather. Name, FTP, this \ldblquote dragon\rdblquote  of an emperor, the last good Manchu emperor.

\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Chien-Lung}{ Huang-Di or }{\b\ul Chien-Lung}{ Emperor
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\page 23. }{\f0 Lewis H. Morgan. Frank H. Hankins. Henry Maine. Georg Simmel. George K. Sipf. Oskar Morgenstern. Talcott Parsons. Karl Marx. Ellen Sempel. \'c9
mile Durkheim. FTP, these people are all important figures in this field, the human behavioral science that investigates the nature, causes, and effects of social relations among individuals and between individuals and groups.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul sociology}{\b  }{(also accept }{\b\ul sociologists}{)
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 16: BONI}{\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 1. For ten points each, identify the following from philosophical history.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab 
Name the German born in 1770 who found a place for everything--logical, natural, human, and divine--in a dialectical scheme that repeatedly swung from thesis to antithesis and back again to a higher and richer synthesis.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Georg Wilhelm Friedric }{\b\ul Hegel}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels adopted Hegel\rquote 
s dialectic, but combined it with the opposite of the idealism that had motivated Hegel. State the two-word term for this philosophical approach of Marx and Engels.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab dialectical }{\b\ul materialism}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab 
For a final 10, state the term that Marx used designated the class of wage workers who were engaged in industrial production and whose chief source of income was derived from the sale of their labor power.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul proletariat}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 2. FTPE, answer these questions about the recent earthquake in Colombia.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab Name the city of 280,000 people that was hit hardest by the quake, located in the Andes in the Quindino province. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Armenia}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab What did the earthquake measure on the Richter scale, within a half point?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab 6.0 (accept }{\b\ul 5.5 to 6.5}{)
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Name the President of Colombia, who had to cancel a weeklong European trip to fly to the disaster area and take charge of the relief effort.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Andres }{\b\ul Pastrana}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 3. At MacWorld Expo in January, Steve Jobs announced 5 new flavors of the Apple iMac. This makes a total of six Apple iMac colors. For five points each, name the colors.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul bondi blue}{ (the original), }{\b\ul tangerine}{, }{\b\ul lime}{, }{\b\ul strawberry}{, }{\b\ul grape}{, }{\b\ul blueberry}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 4. }{\fs22\cgrid0 Name the author of these novels about World War II for 15 points each.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {a.\tab }{\i From Here to Eternity}{
\par ANSWER:\tab James }{\b\ul Jones}{
\par b.\tab }{\i The Young Lions}{
\par ANSWER:\tab Irwin }{\b\ul Shaw}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 5. How well do you know your geological periods? Well, you can answer these questions about them for ten points each regardless.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab First, What is the longest geological time period?
\par }\pard\plain \s26\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ulw Precambrian}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab This period lasted from about 408 million to 360 million years ago and saw the first primitive fish on earth.
\par }\pard\plain \s26\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ulw Devonian}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab This period saw the prominence of our friendly Trilobytes.
\par }\pard\plain \s26\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ulw Cambrian}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 \page 6. Name these monarchs related to Eleanor of Aquitane, for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab FTP, name Eleanor\rquote s first husband, to whom she was married during the years 1137-1152. He ruled France from 1137-1180.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Louis VII}{ (ACC: }{\b\ul Louis the Younger}{ )
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab After Louis repudiated her for misconduct in 1152, she married his rival, the king of England fro
m 1154-1189. He was known for his feud with Thomas a Becket, Archbishop of Canterbury. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Henry II}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab In total, Eleanor had five sons and five daughters by her two husbands. FFP, name the son, ruling England from 1189-1199, who conquered Cyprus during the 3}{
\fs22\super rd}{\fs22  Crusade and negotiated a five-year peace treaty with Saladin. And, for another 5pts, name his brother and successor, who accepted the terms set forth in the Magna Carta in 1215.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Richard I}{ (ACC: Richard the Lion-Heart) and }{\b\ul John}{ Lackland
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 7. Answer these questions relating to a historic Supreme Court case, FTPE.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab 
This 1810 case, presided over by John Marshall, involved a land fraud, in which Georgia legislators were bribed in 1795 to sell most of the land now making up the state of Mississippi, then a part of Georgia\rquote 
s western claims. The new Georgia legislature tried to rescind the act, but the Supreme Court decided that rescinding the act was an unconstitutional infringement on a legal contract. Name the case.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Fletcher v. Peck}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab The land fraud (and the legislative act) was named for this river, which runs through most of the region.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Yazoo}{ River
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Within 10%, give the total amount that the four land companies paid for the land.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul $500,000}{ (ACC: $450,000-$550,000)
\par 
\par 8. Answer these questions about the James Bond movies for the stated number of points. 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 5:\tab In most of the early movies, Bond\rquote s adversaries are members of this organization.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul SPECTRE}{ (or Special Executive for Counter-Espionage, Terrorism, Revenge, and Extortion)
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 10:\tab The head of SPECTRE is this man, famous for his omnipresent white cat.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Ernst Stavro }{\b\ul Blofeld}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 5 each:\tab Name the three men who have played Ernst Stavro Blofeld on-screen in the official Bond movies, which does not include }{\i\fs22 Never Say Never Again}{\fs22 .

\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Donald }{\b\ul Pleasance}{, Charles }{\b\ul Gray}{, Telly }{\b\ul Savalas}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 9. Sometimes, SI units are not the most popular for practical use, especially in the U.S. So, answer some questions about t
hese SI and non-SI units used in the science community for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab One PSI(pound per square inch) equals 6,985 of these units, and standard pressure is about 101,900 of these units.
\par }\pard\plain \s26\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ulw Pascal}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab I bet you expected me to ask about Calories and Joules, didn\rquote t you? Well, that\rquote 
d be too easy. instead, give me the name of these units, equal to .0000001 (One Ten millionth) of a Joule, used to measure work in the centimeter-gram-second system. 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ulw erg}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab 
Well, here is an easy one. This unit is used extensively in pharmacology, especially to measure the mass of vitamins. For the final ten points, name this unit, one gram of which is equal to 2,904,000 of these units.
\par }\pard\plain \s26\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ulw IU}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ulw International Unit}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 \page 10. Identify the philosophers from works for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab \ldblquote Apology,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Meno,\rdblquote  }{\i\fs22 Symposium}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Plato}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab }{\i\fs22 New Atlantis}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 The Great Instauration
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul F}{rancis }{\b\ul Bacon}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab }{\i\fs22 Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 A Treatise of Human Nature}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab David }{\b\ul Hume}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 11. FTPE, answer these questions about sociopolitics in East African.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab 
Though it was absorbed by the Ethiopian Empire in 1962, constant clashes occurred between government troops and Muslim- and Chrstian-led secessionist groups within this state.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Eritrea}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab In 1960, a group of predominantly Muslim exiles calling for armed conflict for Eritrea\rquote 
s rights established the Eritrean Liberation Front in this Egyptian city.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Cairo}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab This organziation, formed in Mogadishu 1943, focused on Somali unity that transcended ethnic considerations.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Somali Youth Club}{ or }{\b\ul Somali Youth League}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 12. 30-20-10, name the anthropologist.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 30:\tab This woman's fieldwork with southwestern U.S. tribes helped develop her influential theories in the then-burgeoning field of cultural anthropology.
\par 20:\tab Under the pseudonym Anne Singleton, she wrote poetry in the '20s and '30s even after her entrance into anthropology.
\par 10:\tab She wrote "Patterns of Culture", supported cultural relativism, and was the subject of a 1974 Margaret Mead biography.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Ruth }{\b\ul Benedict}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 13. Identify these ballet positions and steps from the following description, FTPE.
\par a.\tab Position in which the dancer bends forward while standing on one straight leg with the arm extended forward and other arm and leg extended backward in a straight line.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul arabesque}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab Position similar to the arabesque in which the dancer stands on one leg and extends the other leg forward or back with a bent knee.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul attitude}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab A leap from one foot onto the other in which one leg is extended forward and the other is extended backward.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul jet\'e9}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 14. Given a book of Pulitzer-prize winning poetry, identify its author for ten points.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab }{\i\fs22 Poems, North and South}{\fs22 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Elizabeth }{\b\fs22\ul Bishop}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab }{\i\fs22 New Hampshire: A Poem With Notes and Grace No}{\fs22 tes\tab ANSWER: Robert }{\b\fs22\ul Frost}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab }{\i\fs22 Pictures from Bruegel}{\fs22 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: William Carlos }{\b\fs22\ul Williams}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 \page 15. There is nothing certain but death and taxes, and this question is about taxes. For ten points each, identify the following IRS forms.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {a.\tab This form, known as the \ldblquote wage and tax statement,\rdblquote  must be given to you by your employer before the end of January.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul W-2}{
\par b.\tab This form is used for individual tax returns. It has many letters and schedules associated with it, but just state the number.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul 1040}{
\par c.\tab This form reports interest income in its INT form, dividends and distributions in its DIV form, and miscellaneous payments in its MISC form. Once again, state just the number.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul 1099}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 16. FTPE, answer these Broadway-related questions.
\par a.\tab Based on the play by Frances Goodrich and Ablert Hackett, }{\i\fs22 Anne Frank on Broadway}{\fs22  stars this young actress as the title heroine. She\rquote s slated to play in the new Star Wars movie.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Natalie }{\b\ul Portman}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab 
This new Australian production is filled with familiar Broadway tunes such as George Gershwin's "I Got Rhythm" and Cole Porter's "I Get a Kick Out of You." Kelly Young, the starring pe
rformer, is to capture talent and the down-to-earth personality of the actress to whom this show pays tribute. Give either the name of this \ldblquote Queen of Musical Comedy.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Ethel }{\b\ul Merman}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Name Broadway's new demi-semi-quasi-pseudo-autobiographical comedy starring John Leguizamo.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Freak}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 17. FTPE, answer these questions about a Hindu cultural practice.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab This is the practice of a wife ascending the funeral pyre of her dead husband, burning herself along with him.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul suttee}{ 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab Suttee was denounced as barbaric by the British, and banned in 1829, but it affected few people because it was basically limited to Bengali members of this caste.

\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Brahmin}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Suttee is first mentioned as a practice of queens in this traditional Sanskrit epic of India, written down about 400 BC.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab the }{\b\ul Mahabharata}{ 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 
\par 18. Answer the following questions about the 1998 World Series for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab In Game One of the series, a San D
iego Padres pitcher threw a two and two pitch to a Yankees slugger that appeared to be strike three. After the American League umpire called that pitch a ball, the Yankee batter launched a grand slam into the upper deck in right field. For five points eac
h, name the pitcher and the hitter.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Mark }{\b\ul Langston}{ (pitcher) and Tino }{\b\ul Martinez}{ (hitter)
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab Two players hit two home runs in single games of the series. For five points each, name them.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab Greg }{\b\fs22\ul Vaughn}{\fs22  and Scott }{\b\fs22\ul Brosius}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab In order to support thei
r teammate, the Yankees had the number of former cocaine addict and alcoholic Darryl Strawberry embroidered on their hats. What was his number?
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul 39}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 \page 19. }{\fs22\cgrid0 Name the author from the following clues, 30-20-10.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22\cgrid0 30:\tab Born in Osaka in 1642, he produced no l
ess that 25 full-length prose works during his lifetime. A famous poet during his lifetime, he wrote a record 23,500 verses in a period of 24 hours. To no one\rquote s surprise, the record still stands today.
\par 20:\tab His works fall into three periods. He wrote the \ldblquote erotic works\rdblquote  for which he is best known between 1682-86. He moved on to \ldblquote miscellaneous\rdblquote  works from 1685-89 and he wrote his \ldblquote townsman works
\rdblquote  from 1688-1693.
\par 10:\tab His famous works include }{\i\fs22\cgrid0 The Man Who Lived for Love}{\fs22\cgrid0  and }{\i\fs22\cgrid0 Five Women Who Chose Love}{\fs22\cgrid0 .
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Ihara }{\b\ul Saikaku}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {20. Answer these questions about insect physiology FTP each.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab  These are the excretory organs of insects.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Malpighian }{(mal-PIG-ee-un or mal-PIJ-ee-un)}{\b\ulw  tubules}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab These tiny holes in the abdomen are used for breathing.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw spiracles}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22\cgrid0 c.\tab Insects have green blood, because they have this copper-containing pigment in place of}{\fs22  hemoglobin.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ul h}{\b\ulw emocyanin}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 21. The art of biography isn\rquote t just a cold historical or journalistic task. It\rquote s also a literary one. For fifteen points each, 
identify these men who turned already great lives into art. 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab Name the biographer of Albert Camus who penned the work }{\i\fs22 Camus: A Life}{\fs22  in 1997, referred to by Sartre}{\fs22\cf1  as his \ldblquote rebel son.
\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab Olivier }{\b\ul\cf1 Todd}{\ul\cf1 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab Name the author of such great (and slightly fictionalized) biographical works as }{\i\fs22 Julian}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Lincoln}{\fs22 , and }{\i\fs22 Burr}{\fs22 .

\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab Gore}{\b\cf1  }{\b\ul\cf1 Vidal}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {22. FTP each, calculate the derivatives of the following, with respect to x.
\par a.\tab x to the fourth.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\ul  }{\b\ul four x to the third}{\b\ulw  }{
\par b.\tab tangent x
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ul secant squared x}{\b\ulw  }{\{or ((sec x)^2), prompt if they forget\}
\par c.\tab the natural log of the hyperbolic cosine of x
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul hyperbolic tangent of x}{\{or (tanh x)\}
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 23. FTPE, identify these forefathers of geography.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab His }{\i\fs22 Geographical Guide}{\fs22  had tremendous influence on future travelers, and his geography revolved entirely around cartography.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f0\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\f0\fs22\ul Ptolemy}{\f0\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab This other classical Greek geographer chose to focus on how the physical environment affected the way the people lived.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f0\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\f0\fs22\ul Strabo}{\f0\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab This founder of scientific geography measured the earth with the most accuracy to be found for almost two millennia. All the same, Strabo criticized his methods.

\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f0\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\f0\fs22\ul Eratosthenes}{\f0\fs22 
\par }{\f0\fs22\cgrid 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }}