{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times;}{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f28\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f29\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f31\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f32\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f33\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid 
\sbasedon0 \snext20 Plain Text;}{\s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext21 Bonus First Line;}{\s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext22 Bonus Part;}}{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1145622638\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelold\levelspace0\levelindent360{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li360 }{\listname ;}\listid1283726745}}{\*\listoverridetable
{\listoverride\listid1283726745\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator Victor Kao}{\creatim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr8\min12}{\revtim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr17\min5}{\printim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr17\min5}{\version5}{\edmins5}{\nofpages9}
{\nofwords3202}{\nofchars18256}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header 
\pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round X.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 9}}}{ of 7
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }}{\headerf \pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }}{\footerf \pard\plain \s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 2: TOSSUPS}{\fs24 

\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VII. }{\fs24 Round 2.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24  PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\fs24\lang1024 2}}}{\fs24  of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs19\fs24  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\cs19\fs24\lang1024 9}}}{\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1999 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {1. At the siege of Bastogne during this battle, Anthony McAuliffe, commander of the American 101st Airborne Division, responded to a surrender request with the single word, \ldblquote Nuts.\rdblquote  Eventu
ally, George Patton\rquote s Third Army arrived from the south to rescue the besieged troops, who had been supplied by airlift.  For ten points, name this 1944-45 battle, which crushed the last major German offensive of WWII.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab The }{\b\ul Battle of the Bulge}{
\par }\pard \sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {2. Th
e Aye-Aye lemurs have been said to use this when they locate bugs in a tree by tapping on the tree trunk. SONAR is the human equivalent of this method of neural imaging, where animals use sound waves bouncing off objects in order to visualize their surrou
ndings. FTP, name this method, which certain types of whales and all bats can use even in the complete absence of light. \line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Echolocation}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {3. He was fluent in Czech, but all of his completed literary works were in German.  The theme that permeated thr
oughout both his life and work was his relationship to his father - the thin, awkward, intellectual writer to his robust, loud, and corporal parent.  FTP, name this 20th century Prague-born author of }{\i The Castle}{ and }{\i The Trial}{
, which clearly reflect his preoccupation with the ideas of father and family.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Franz }{\b\ul Kafka}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {4. As a child, he was schooled in Kirkcaldy, and was once carried off, then abandoned, by gypsies.  Later in life, he cherished his social and intellectual experiences in Glasgow, and wrot
e about, among other things, the "invisible hand" which can regulate the economy. FTP, name this Scottish social philosopher and author of }{\i The Wealth of Nations}{.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Adam }{\b\ul Smith}{
\par 
\par 5. This man, whose work included woodcuts, altarpieces, and court painting
s, wielded much influence in 16th-century German art.  Many of his paintings featured nude, decorative women with elongated bodies in teasingly erotic poses.  His better known paintings include "The Judgment of Paris" and
\par "Rest on the Flight to Egypt." FTP, name this artist, whose surname was derived from the name of his hometown.
\par ANSWER: Lucas }{\b\ul Cranach}{ (the hometown was called Kronach)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {6. In }{\i The Pocket Book of Baby and Child Care}{, which became the second-best-selling book in American history, he wrote "Tru
st yourself" and made a profound impact on American culture. He intended his books to contradict previous child-rearing advice, which he summarized as the "Look out, stupid, if you don\rquote 
t do as I say, you'll kill the baby" attitude. FTP, name this New York pediatrician with a background in psychology.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Dr. Benjamin }{\b\ul Spock}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {7. As you enter the country from the north, the first city you encounter is Jujuy. On your way south, you visit Salta and Tucuman. You turn east at Santiago del Estero and spend a ni
ght in Corrientes, on the Paraguayan border. Then you turn south again, hitting Rosario and then Buenos Aires. FTP, what South American country are you traveling in?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Argentina}{
\par \page 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
8. Susan Sarandon, Tim Curry and Barry Bostwick star in a movie about two lovers who decide to get married. Their fortunes go awry when their car breaks down on a deserted road in the middle of a storm. In a search for help, they end up going to the house
 of Dr. Frank-N-Furter, where they are immersed in a chaotic, campy den of weirdness and confusion. FTP, name this musical shown at midnight shows around the country featuring such classic songs as \ldblquote Dammit, Janet, I Love You\rdblquote  and the 
\ldblquote Time Warp.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Rocky Horror Picture Show}{\b\ul 
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0\fs22 
9. They were placed in a basket beside the Tiber on order from King Amulius, who had earlier ordered their mother, Rhea Silvia, to become a vestal virgin.  That dastardly Mars, however, impregnated Rhea Silvia mother. These son
s did not drown; instead, they were found by a she-wolf and later lived with the shepard Faustulus and his wife, Larentia.  For ten points, name these brothers, the mythological founders of Rome.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Romulus}{ and }{\b\ul Remus}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {10. This form of sculpture, whose
 name derives from the Greek for "ornamental gardening," was very fashionable during Roman and Renaissance times.  An intertwining of art, science, and nature, it involves the training and cutting of trees and shrubs into unnatural shapes. FTP, name the t
erm for this decorative practice, whose products were prominently featured in Stephen King's }{\i The Shining}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul topiary}{ art
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {11. This company has been so successfully that the company\rquote s founder is now selling a book called }{\i The Salesman of the Century}{. Wit
h products such as the Drain Buster, Door Saver, and the Inside the Shell Electric Egg Scrambler, it\rquote s no surprise that they\rquote ve made a fortune. And that\rquote 
s not all! FTP name this company that has used infomercials to sell its Electric Food Dehydrator and Popeil Pasta Maker.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Ronco}{
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
12. The title character of this Greek tragedy by Euripides is a barbarian princess and a sorceress. The play takes place after her husband, Jason, for whom she had committed unthinkable crimes such as the murder of her brot
her, has deserted her. FTP, name the wild woman who dips her hands into more blood by killing her own sons in reprisal for Jason's betrayal.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab the }{\b\i\ul Medea}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {13. Founded around 1100 CE, this city did not reach its height until the 14}{\super th}{ century when it be
came a focal point in the trans-Saharan gold and salt trade. Scholars came as well and it became a major commercial and intellectual hub from 1493-1591. After Moroccans invaded the town in 1591 everything went down the tubes; repeated invasions and battle
s damaged it beyond repair. Name this famous, but pretty much deserted African city in present day Mali.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Timbuktu}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\sb360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0\fs22 14. This animal consumes the largest amount of plants of any specie in the order Carnivora. First classed with the raccoon family along
 with its lesser counterpart, now it is classified in the family Ursidae, although it does not share similarities with the other members of this family. For ten points, name this black and white animal, native of Burma (Myanmar) and China. \line ANSWER:
\tab  The }{\b\f0\fs22\ulw Giant Panda}{\f0\fs22  (Prompt on panda or panda bears) 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\page 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {15. A young, na\'efve, and sensitive writer from the South, he moves to New York City with hopes of making it big.  There he falls helplessly in love with a Polish Holocaust survivor, a beautiful woman
 who is at least 8 years his senior.  His infatuation with this older woman is further complicated by his friendship with her lover, Nathan, a brilliant but mentally unstable Jewish research assistant.  FTP, give the unique nickname of this narrator of Wi
lliam Styron\rquote s }{\i Sophie\rquote s Choice}{.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Stingo}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {16. Pirates great Willie Stargell said that trying to hit this pitcher's curveball was like trying to eat coffee with a fork.  Columnist Bill Conlin remarked that his pitching for the woeful Phillies of the ea
rly 70's was like a Pulitzer Prize winner writing for Jack and Jill.  Though he isn't Grove or Gomez, he is a Hall-of-Famer nicknamed \ldblquote Lefty.\rdblquote   FTP, name this first player to win four Cy Young Awards.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Steven Norman }{\b\ul Carlton}{
\par }\pard \sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {17. This programming lang
uage was developed by Niklaus Wirth in the late 1960s. It is best known for its affinity to structured programming techniques, which forces programs to be designed methodically and carefully. Though consequently a very popular teaching tool, it is inconve
nient to use in the business world, and is usually replaced by C. FTP, name this programming language, named for a famous French mathematician known for his triangle. \line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Pascal}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {18. He was victimized when bad girl Vicki Va
llencourt stole his Porsche, but this man has had plenty of legal problems of his own. In fact, he was arrested twice on drug charges, filed false tax returns, and even declared bankruptcy. Perhaps he\rquote 
s turned things around, though, since he encouraged kids not to smoke crack in }{\i The Waterboy}{. FTP identify this great Giants linebacker who was recently elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Lawrence }{\b\ul Taylor}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {19. It is the craft of creating objects by forming a coarse lace using knotted cords or thic
k threads in geometric patterns. It was a specialty of Genoa in the 1800s, but the name is derived from the Turkish for napkin or towel. Despite this derivation, objects such as plant hangers, hammocks, and jewelry are commonly made. FTP, name this popula
r craft.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul macrame}{ [mac-ra-may]
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {20. Born in Washington in 1938, this conservative started out as an editorial writer for the St. Louis Globe Democrat, before working in the Nixon administration as a speechwriter and researcher.  He then worked as a s
yndicated columnist before joining the Reagan White House as communications director.  For ten points, name this 1992 presidential candidate and occasional host of CNN\rquote s crossfire.
\par ANSWER:\tab Pat }{\b\ul Buchanan}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {21. Born in Missouri, he gained his nickname while se
rving in the 10th Calvary in Montana with a mostly black regiment.  He moved on to serve as a general, commander, and eventually as Army Chief of Staff in 1921.  After retiring, he published his memoirs, }{\i My Experience in the World War}{
. For ten points, name the head of the American Expeditionary Force in World War I, nicknamed \ldblquote Black Jack.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab John Joseph }{\b\ul Pershing}{
\par }\pard \sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 22. When broken down to the simplest units, it is kilograms times meters squared over seconds cubed. It measures the rate at which work is d
one. Otherwise, it is something wanted by many sinister dictators and cartoon villains. FTP, name this unit of measurement, which He-Man must declare to everybody that he possesses many times during a typical episode.\line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Power}{

\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 23. He once said \ldblquote My pleasures are the most intense known to man: writing and butterfly hunting.\rdblquote 
 In 1940, he came to America where he taught at Stanford, Wellesley, Harvard, and Cornell. In addition to his reputation as a writer, he also enjoyed praise for his literary criticism. FTP, name this Russian-born \'e9migr\'e9
 who, during one of his butterfly-pursuing trips in the early 1950s, wrote his famous novel }{\i Lolita}{. 
\par ANSWER:\tab Vladimir }{\b\ul Nabokov}{
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 2: BONI}{\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par }{\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 1. For ten points each, name the following nations given a current or former head of state.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab Frederick Chiluba\tab ANSWER:\tab Republic of }{\b\fs22\ul Zambia}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab Esko Aho\tab ANSWER:\tab Republic of }{\b\fs22\ul Finland}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {c.   Suharto\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Republic of }{\b\ul Indonesia}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {2.  }{\fs22 You may remember me and my bamboo stick named Fillipe. Before that fateful capybara caper, I was into chasing flightless birds.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab 
While wandering in the forest of New Guinea, I happened upon one of these birds. Excited by the blue head, black plumage, and double red wattles, I brandished Fillipe, sc
reamed, and gave chase. The bird suddenly turned and laid me out with three swift kicks. FTP, what bird put me in the ICU for a month?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul cassowary}{ (accept }{\b\i\ul Casuarius casuarius}{) 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab 
Still nursing an open head wound, I decided to seek a large, slow bird named the dodo. Though Fillipe told me it had been extinct for over three hundred years, I ignored him and enthusiastically set off for the dodo's home. FTP, to what Indian Ocean islan
d did I speed?
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Mauritius}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 c.\tab 
While upset to find no dodos on Mauritius, I came to the important realization that an extinct animal can't hurt you. I then went to New Zealand to seek these birds, the larger varieties of which had been extinct for as l
ong as the dodo. They were enormous, some over 3 meters high, and flightless. FTP, name this bird that frustrated my searches.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul moa}{ or }{\b\ul dinornis}{ (do not accept "elephant bird")
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 3. Identify the key players in these baseball trades FTP each.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 a.\tab}}\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright \fs22 {In 19
64, the Cubs acquired pitcher Ernie Broglio from the Cardinals for this young outfielder, who went on to become one of the great base-stealers in history.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl12\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\ilvl12\adjustright {ANSWER: \tab Lou }{\b\ul Brock}{
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 b.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {
Pitchers T.J. Matthews, Eric Ludwick, and Blake Stein were traded for this player on July 21, 1997.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl12\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\ilvl12\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER: \tab Mark }{\b\fs22\ul McGwire}{\fs22 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 c.\tab}}\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright \fs22 {
To complete the triumvirate, in 1981, the Phillies gave Larry Bowa and this future All-Star second baseman to the Cubs for Ivan DeJesus.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Ryne }{\b\ul Sandberg}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 4. Name the following figures in the Watergate crisis for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab This deputy assistant to President Nixon first revealed the existence of the Oval Office taping system.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Alexander }{\b\ul Butterfield}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab This attorney general resigned rather than fire Special Prosecutor Archibald Cox as Nixon ordered.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Elliot }{\b\ul Richardson}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 c.\tab This solicitor general, who was later rejected as a Supreme Court nominee, eventually fired Archibald Cox.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Robert }{\b\ul Bork}{
\par \page 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {5. }{\cf1 Answer the following questions about the endocrine system for the stated number of points. 
\par a.\~ The pancreas produces two hormones with opposing effects on blood sugar.\~ Name them both for ten points each. 
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw\cf1 Insulin}{\cf1  and }{\b\ulw\cf1 Glucagon}{\cf1  
\par b. This gland, which produces cells essential to the immune system, also produces thymosin, a hormone which stimulates the immune response.\~ Name it for ten points. 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw\cf1 Thymus}{\cf1  Gland}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 6. For ten points each, answer these questions about that book we all love so dearly, }{\i\fs22 Heart of Darkness}{\fs22 .
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab What Francis Ford Coppola movie featuring the famous "Ride of the Valkyries" helicopter attack scene was based on the novel?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Apocalypse Now}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab Name the yarn-spinning protagonist.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Marlow}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 c.\tab Name the river on which the first part of the book is set.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Thames}{ 
\par 
\par 7. I know for a fact that the \ldblquote Real\rdblquote  }{\i Saved by the Bell}{, with Zack, Screech, Lisa, et al, is still airing on TV networks because it fulfills the requirement for \ldblquote Educational TV.\rdblquote  So, in honor
 of educational TV, answer these questions about the original }{\i Saved by the Bell}{ for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab Before they were in high school, Zack, Screech and company went to junior high. First, give the name of this school.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Robert F. Kennedy}{ (}{\b\ul RFK}{) 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab In RFK, Aside from Mr. Belding, there was another teacher that showed up prominently in most of the episodes, name this teacher.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Miss }{\b\ul Bliss}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 c.\tab Back to when they were in High School, We all remember that Screech had a thing for Lisa, but he never w
ent out with her (sniff). Fortunately for Screech, he dated this character, played by Tori Spelling for some time on the show. For the final ten points, name this character.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Violet}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 8. Name the following works by Richard Wright for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 5:\tab This novel is an account of his childhood and young manhood in the South.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Black Boy}{ 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 10:\tab This novel features Bigger Thomas, a poor black youth who accidentally kills a white girl
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Native Son}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 15:\tab This novel, often called American's first existential novel, warned that integration of society would not be as blacks hoped.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul The Outsider}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 9. Ten points each, name the Broadway musical from songs.
\par a.\tab \ldblquote Wunderbar,\rdblquote  \ldblquote I\rquote ve Come to Wive It Wealthily in Padua,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Brush Up Your Shakespeare\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Kiss Me, Kate}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab \ldblquote Double Talk,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Everybody\rquote s Gotta Be Somewhere,\rdblquote  \ldblquote You\rquote re Nothing Without Me\rdblquote 

\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul City of Angels}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 c.\tab \ldblquote Oom-Pah-Pah,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Consider Yourself,\rdblquote  \ldblquote You\rquote ve Got To Pick a Pocket or Two\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Oliver!}{
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\page 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {10. }{\fs22 You've probably glanced at them hundreds of times, but have you ever really seen anything?  Answer these questions about computer logos for the stated number of points.

\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab For 10 points, all or nothing, give the colors of the Windows logo in this order: upper-left pane, upper-right, lower-left, lower right.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul red, green, blue, and yellow}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab For 10 points, all or nothing, give the top and bottom colors in Apple's logo.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul green}{ and }{\b\ul blue}{ (order not important)
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 c.\tab For 10 points, how many horizontal lines form "IBM" in its company's logo?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul eight}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 11. Answer these questions about Pompey the Great.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab FFPE, Name the two other members of the First Triumvirate.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER: \tab }{\b\ul Julius Caesar}{ and Marcus Licinius }{\b\ul Crassus}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab To strengthen the ties between them, Pompey married this daughter of Julius Caesar, but their relationship disintegrated with her health.  FTP, name her.

\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Julia}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 c.\tab Name, FTP, this 48 BCE battle where Caesar\rquote s outnumbered army soundly defeated Pompey\rquote s legions, and Pompey himself fled to Larissa.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Battle of }{\b\ul Pharsalus}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {12. }{\cf1 The haggard man in the chair proclaims, \ldblquote I was around back in the days of ARPAnet! These silly people have no idea what this thing is that they\rquote re using!\rdblquote 
 He is of course an Internet elitist, and he\rquote s sick and tired of people who think that AOL is the Internet or that Internet Explorer is the best browser on the planet. 
\par a.  \ldblquote C\rquote mon! I bet you could even tell me what ARPA stands for if I offered you ten points.\rdblquote  
\par }{\b\ulw\cf1 Advanced Research Project Agency}{\cf1  
\par b.  \ldblquote Okay, well how about for five points each you tell me the protocol that the Internet runs on and what it stands for!\rdblquote   
\par }{\b\ulw\cf1 TCP/IP}{\cf1  and }{\b\ulw\cf1 Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol}{\cf1  
\par c.  \ldblquote Then, for five points each, tell me what those fancy-schmancy addresses like playboy.com resolve to when you type them in with your little bitty fingers, hunched over the keyboard eagerly, and what does the resolving of the address.
\rdblquote  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw\cf1 IP addresses}{\cf1  and }{\b\ulw\cf1 DNS}{\cf1  (Domain Name System) servers}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {13. }{\fs22 Let me take you back to 1991.  Name the authors of the following bestsellers from that year for 5 points}{\fs22\cgrid0  each. You\rquote 
ll get an additional five points if all answers are correct.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab }{\i\fs22 The Kitchen God's Wife}{\fs22 \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab Amy }{\b\fs22\ul Tan}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab }{\i\fs22 The Prince of Tides}{\fs22 \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab Pat }{\b\fs22\ul Conroy}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab }{\i\fs22 The Silence of the Lambs}{\fs22 \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab Thomas }{\b\fs22\ul Harris}{\fs22\ul 
\par }{\fs22 d.\tab }{\i\fs22 Parliament of Whores}{\fs22 \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab P.J. }{\b\fs22\ul O\rquote Rourke}{\fs22\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {e.    }{\i Men at Work: The Craft of Baseball}{\tab        \tab        ANSWER:\tab George }{\b\ul Will}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 14. }{\fs22\cgrid0 Name the following ancient Egyptians for 15 points each. 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab 
A king of the 4th dynasty, he had 4 wives, and, according to Herodotus, reigned for 63 years. Herodotus also claimed that he made slaves work for 20 years to build the pyramid of Giza, but this is now considered incorrect.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Cheops}{ (or Khufu)
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab These Asians established dynasties in Egypt during the 2nd intermediary period. They were overthrown by the 17th dynasty.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Hyksos}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 15. }{\fs22\cgrid0 I'll give you the newspaper, }{\fs22 and you give me the city for the stated number of points.}{\fs22\cgrid0 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 5pts:\tab }{\i\fs22 The Rocky Mountain News}{\fs22 \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Denver}{\fs22 
\par 10pts:\tab }{\i\fs22 Plain Dealer}{\fs22 \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Cleveland}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {15pts:\tab }{\i Mercury News}{\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul San Jose}{
\par 
\par 16. FTPE, answer these questions on the nature of business organization.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab This term describes a firm with a single owner who
 has unlimited liability, meaning that he or she is legally responsible for all the debts of their firm up to their total wealth. The government only taxes profits once as owner income.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul proprietorship}{ 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab This kind of firm is very similar to a proprietorship except that there are two or more owners with joint unlimited liability. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul partnership
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 c.\tab These firms are legal entities, separated from the individuals who own them. Owners have liability only over the value of their initial investment. 
Therefore, no one can force them to use their personal wealth to cover the company\rquote s debts. Income is taxed twice as company profit and shareholder profit.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul corporation}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 17. }{\fs22\cgrid0 Name the following characters from the Odyssey, 10 points each:
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab He is the son of Odysseus and Penelope.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Telemachus}{\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab Telemachus first visits this king of Pylos.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab King }{\b\ul Nestor}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 c.\tab He is the faithful dog of Odysseus who recognizes him upon his arrival in Ithaca.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Argus}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {18.}{\cf1  Give the chemical name of the following household compounds for the stated number of points (for example, table salt would be sodium chloride). 
\par 5pts: Baking soda 
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ul\cf1 Sodium Bicarbonate}{\cf1  (or }{\b\ulw\cf1 SODIUM HYDROGEN CARBONATE}{\cf1 ) 
\par 10pts: Epsom salts 
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw\cf1 Magnesium Sulfate}{\cf1  
\par 15 pts: Bleach 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw\cf1 Sodium Hypochlorite}{
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {19. Answer these questions about the departure of one of President Clinton\rquote s closest advisers, for the stated number of points.     
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab For 5: He left his post as White House Chief of Staff soon after Congress closed session in December. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Erskine }{\b\ul Bowles}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab For 10: Bowles headed home for some well-deserved relaxation and a possible run for governor of this, his home state.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul North Carolina}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 c.\tab For 15: this attorney served as Deputy Chief of Staff and replaced Bowles as Clinton\rquote s Chief of Staff.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab John }{\b\ul Podesta}{
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 20. Answer the following questions about Nietzsche's philosophy.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab Nietzsche took from Aristotle the concept of greatness of soul, the unchristian virtue that included n
obility, and a justified pride in one's achievements. From this, he suggested a reevaluation of values that would lead to a new ideal. For ten points, what did he call this new ideal?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul \'dcbermensch}{ or }{\b\ul Superman}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab For ten points each, with what two gods did Neitzsche associate the dichotomous elements of art, particularly classical art and Greek drama?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWERS:\tab }{\b\ul Apollo}{ and }{\b\ul Dionysus}{
\par 
\par 21. }{\cf1 Answer these questions about electromagnetism FTP each. 
\par a.\~ The earliest formulation of the magnetic field due to a long, straight wire was this 1819 law. 
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw\cf1 Biot-Savart Law}{\cf1  (BEE-oh suh-VAR) 
\par b.\~ The year after the Biot-Savart Law was developed, this law described the magnetic field from a current-carrier of any shape. 
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw\cf1 Ampere\rquote s Law}{\cf1  (AHM-pare) 
\par c.\~ The most general formula for magnetic fields due to electricity, which accounts for capacitors,\~ is one of these four equations which together describe almost all of electromagnetism. 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw\cf1 Maxwell\rquote s Equations}{ \tab 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {22. Name these composers who were child prodigies for fifteen points each. Hint: None of these people are Mozart.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab This composer of }{\i\fs22 The Bartered Bride}{\fs22  studied under Kittl in Prague.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Biedrich }{\b\ul Smentana}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab He once complained that he could not orchestrate a C ma
jor triad without critics complaining about his large and revolutionary orchestration. This man did not win the Prix de Rome until his third attempt, leading some to think that he was not a prodigy after all.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Hector }{\b\ul Berlioz}{ 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 23. }{\fs22\cgrid0 Name the religion 
with the most adherents from the given country for 5 points each, and a bonus 5 for all correct. Answering something like "Christianity" is too vague.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx3600\tx4680\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab Belize\tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Roman Catholic}{\fs22 ism
\par b.\tab Belgium\tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Roman Catholic}{\fs22 ism
\par c.\tab Uzbekistan\tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Sunni Islam}{\fs22  (Prompt on "Islam")
\par d.\tab Fiji\tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Methodist}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {e.    Latvia\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER:  }{\b\ul Lutheran}{ism}{\fs24 
\par }}