{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f464\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f465\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f467\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f468\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f469\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f476\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f477\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}
{\f479\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f480\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f481\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 
\sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{
\s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\adjustright \f2\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Preformatted;}{\s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext21 Bonus First Line;}{
\s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext22 Bonus Part;}{\s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext23 Plain Text;}{\s24\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \b\fs20\cgrid 
\sbasedon0 \snext24 Body Text 3;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1243764466\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }
{\listname ;}\listid136648412}{\list\listtemplateid1365798864\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname 
;}\listid1173952320}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1173952320\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid136648412\listoverridecount0\ls2}}{\info{\title FINALS: TOSSUPS}{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator The Weiner Family}
{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy5\hr23\min37}{\revtim\yr2000\mo6\dy17\hr16\min6}{\printim\yr1999\mo2\dy5\hr23\min49}{\version4}{\edmins1}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords3544}{\nofchars20204}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws24811}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale90\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i 
Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round X.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 3}}}{ of 7
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs48 FINALS: TOSSUPS}{\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII\sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 
Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VIII. }{\fs24 Round 15.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24  PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\fs24\lang1024 2}}}{\fs24  of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\fs24\lang1024 1}}}{\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1999 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }{1. Nothing is more distinctive about this religion than its doctrine of deity. The gods of this faith are finite beings who are part of the universe and wield their power through thei
r advanced knowledge and state of moral development. It also teaches that all other Christian sects are totally corrupted in their doctrine. Perhaps this last belief propels the church to take its missionary work all over the world, as well as provide bas
ketball courts in many of their worship complexes. FTP identify this religion first organized by Joseph Smith.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Mormon}{ or }{\b\ul LDS}{ church or the }{\b\ul Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints}{
\par 
\par 2. After graduating from Oxford in 1608, he became a private tuto
r to William Cavendish. The discoveries of Galileo and Kepler shocked his world, and he decided to become a classical scholar. Upon learning about the fate of ancient Athens, he became wary of democracy. It\rquote 
s no wonder that he concluded a powerful sovereign is required to control humanity. FTP identify this proponent of natural rights whose greatest work was }{\i Leviathan}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab Thomas }{\b\ul Hobbes}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {3. An exothermic reaction in which a combustible material is consumed, it is usually an oxidation-reduction in which 
atmospheric oxygen is consumed. A source of fascination for philosophers and delinquent teens alike, it was probably first used nearly one and a half million years ago, but was not humanly producible until about 7000 BC. Allowing for the cooking of meat, 
the clearing of land, and the creation of warmth, it was instrumental in the development of civilization. FTP, what should you not scream in a crowded theater?
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul fire}{
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {4. }{\f0 They turned into stars after their second album }{\i\f0 It Takes a Nation of Millions to Hold Us Back}{\f0  hit it big. Their hit songs include \ldblquote 
Black Steel in the Hour of Chaos,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Brothers Gonna Work It Out\rdblquote  and \ldblquote 911 is a Joke.\rdblquote  You might know them from their collaboration with Anthrax remaking their song \ldblquote Bring the Noise\rdblquote 
 or their recent performance on the }{\i\f0 He Got Game }{\f0 soundtrack. FTP, name the hip-hop group which has Terminator X packing the jams as Flava Flav and Chuck D rap and bring down the house.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Public Enemy}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f0\fs22 5. }{\f0\fs22\cgrid Environmentalists and scientists were not happy with the pulp and paper 
mill built on this lake in 1966. The government reacted by protecting the lake from pollutants in 1971. It can be described as a structural hollow surrounded by mountains, and 336 rivers and streams flow into it. Not surprisingly, it holds about one-fifth
 of the Earth\rquote s fresh water. FTP name our planet\rquote s deepest lake, located in Russia.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\cgrid ANSWER:\tab Lake }{\b\ul\cgrid Baikal}{
\par 
\par 6. He was the Chilean consul in Buenos Aires from 1933-34, but you probably know him better for other things. Born Neftali Ricardo Reyes Basoalto in 1904, he published his first book }{\i Crepusculario}{\~
in 1923. He would follow that up with collections like }{\i Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair}{ and }{\i One Hundred Sonnets}{. FTP, name this poet who won the 1971 Nobel Prize in Literature and became the subject of the film }{\i Il Postino}{.

\par ANSWER:\tab Pablo }{\b\ul Neruda}{ or Neftali Ricardo Reyes }{\b\ul Basoalto}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 \page 
7. Quite the critic, he stated that "If's there's one thing I hate, it's the movies. Don't even mention them to me...I hate the movies like poison, but I get a bang imitating them.
" He had a sister named Phoebe, once attended a school named Pencey, and found "phonies" all over the place. FTP name this J.D. Salinger character from }{\i\fs22 The Catcher in the Rye}{\fs22 .
\par ANSWER:\tab Holden }{\b\fs22\ul Caulfield}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par 8. 
An Alabama State College graduate, she and her husband, Raymond, moved to Detroit in 1957 and served on the staff of Representative John Conyers until 1988. Her 1993 autobiography was written with Jim Haskins, and she served as president of the Montgomery
 Improvement Association, where she gained national attention. FTP identify this woman who was recognized at the 1999 State of the Union Address and who refused to relinquish a bus seat in December of 1955.
\par ANSWER:\tab Rosa Louise McCauley }{\b\ul Parks}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 9. }{\f0\cgrid0 
This pupil of Sechter began his career as the cathedral organist at Linz in 1856. He was a great admirer of Wagner, whom he often visited. His oeuvre includes 9 symphonies, with the ninth unfinished, a Requiem, a Te Deum, and other sacred choral and orche
stral works. FTP, name this Austrian composer.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Anton }{\b\ul Bruckner}{
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {10. His father, a Spanish immigrant, was a sugarcane farmer in an area dominated by the United Fruit Company. The offspring of his father and the family cook, he was also a revolutionary
. In fact, he joined an abortive attempt to overthrow Rafael Trujillo in the Dominican Republic, and he took part in urban riots that emerged in Bogot\'e1
, Columbia. FTP identify this former baseball pitcher and doctor who is best known for a revolution of his own that ousted Cuban leader Fulgencio Batista in 1959.
\par ANSWER:\tab Fidel }{\b\ul Castro}{ Ruz
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {11. Beginning in 1954 with one product, a cork bulletin board, this company has grown to now be the premier manufacturer of all types of visual communication materials, suc
h as letter boards, white boards, and the accessories that accompany them. Headquartered in Skokie, Illinois, it was recently acquired by the General Binding Corporation. FTP, name this company, featured in }{\i The Usual Suspects}{
 and probably the manufacturer of your favorite classroom eraser.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Quartet}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {12. In BASIC, the two major flow control statements are GOSUB and this, which, while also a feature in the C programming language, is considered to be an element of poor programming style. For ten points, identify this 
\ldblquote hellish\rdblquote  control statement.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw goto}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 
13. Adopted two weeks after his birth, he has won three Pulitzer prizes in a span of about 20 years. Growing up quite comfortably in Westchester, New York, he attended Choate and then moved on to Trinity College in Hartford. FTP name the playwright of }{
\i\fs22 A Delicate Balance}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Seascape}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Three Tall Women}{\fs22 , and }{\i\fs22 Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf}{\fs22 .
\par ANSWER:\tab Edward }{\b\fs22\ul Albee}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par 14. This experiment had a subject, \ldblquote the teacher,\rdblquote  team up with another person tied to a chair with an electrode on his arm, \ldblquote the learner.\rdblquote 
 The teacher would read off word pairs and the learner would read them back. If he or she read incorrectly, the teacher would shock them, and, as incorrect answers piled up, the shocks would grow increasingly inte
nse. As the learner screamed in agony, the psychologists would study the reaction of the worried teacher as they ordered him to keep administering the shocks. Luckily, the learner was only acting. FTP, identify this famous test named after a preeminent Ya
le psychologist. 
\par ANSWER:\tab the }{\b\ul Milgram}{ experiment
\par 
\par \page 15. A man with extremely piercing eyes, he earned a reputation for licentiousness, magical healing and clairovoyance. His ability to stop Prince Aleksy\rquote s hemophilic attacks through hypnosis won him imperial
 support and he had his way around St. Petersburg to do as he pleased. He even began to interfere in military matters much to Russia\rquote 
s detriment and Russians began to blame him for the declining state of their nation. FTP, name this Russian monk who died in 1916 by poisoning, shooting, stabbing and drowning.
\par ANSWER:\tab Grigory Yefimovich }{\b\ul Rasputin
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f0\fs22 16. }{\f0\fs22\cgrid Paper is taken up from the tray. The image to be printed is drawn on a photo-sensitive drum. Toner then electrostatically adheres to the stimulated areas of the 
drum and then is deposited on the paper, resulting in excellent resolution, much better than that possible through ink-jet or impact printing. FTP, name this device, examples of which include the HP 5M, and LaserWriter.\line ANSWER:\tab }{
\b\f0\fs22\ul\cgrid laser printer}{\f0\fs22\cgrid  (prompt on \ldblquote Laser\rdblquote )
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 17. First printed by William Taylor in 1719, this book describe
s the "strange suprizing adventures" of the title character, a man from York. Although the Gilligan's Island theme suggests he was "as primitive as can be," he managed to create some impressive tools and tamed goats. FTP name this rugged islander.
\par ANSWER:\tab Robinson }{\b\fs22\ul Crusoe}{\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
18. Frank Nighbor won the first of these trophies, and Howie Morenz dominated the early years by winning three of the next eight. Maurice Richard won it just once, but Gordie Howe captued it six times. Wayne Gretzky won it eight times in a
 row, and Dominik Hasek [HAH-shik] has captured the last two. FTP, name this trophy, presented to the most valuable player of the NHL.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Hart}{ trophy [prompt on \ldblquote NHL MVP\rdblquote ]
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 19. With Carlo Carra, this Italian painter helped produce the magazine }{\i\f0 Pittura Metafisica}{\f0 
 in 1920. On his own, he depicted deserted cityscapes and used chiaroscuro and exaggerated perspective to create sinister dream worlds. FTP, name this man, whose faceless mannequins and odd juxtapositions of objects influenced the surrealists.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Giorgio de }{\b\ul Chirico}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s24\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \b\fs20\cgrid {\b0\fs22 20.}{\fs22  }{\b0\fs22 
Born in 1934, this Utah native worked as a lawyer in Pennsylvania and Utah until he was elected to the Senate in 1976, despite holding no previous political office. He is now in his fourth term as a Senator, heads the Senate 
Judiciary Committee, and also works on the Senate Finance Committee. Name this senator who has come in headlines recently over his comments about the impeachment debate, saying he would "blow his stack" if he heard any more criticisms of independent counc
il Kenneth Starr.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Orrin }{\b\ul Hatch}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {
21. One of these new consumer electronics products consists of over one million pixels, and each pixel can produce over 16 million colors. The result is a very high resolution picture that is viewable from any angle in
 the room and under any lighting conditions. FTP identify this product that Philips hopes will allow people with small rooms and lots of money to have big television sets.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul FlatTV}{ (accept \ldblquote flat screen TV\rdblquote  or equivalent)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 22. This great monarch exten
ded the reach of his empire from Punjab to over most of the Indian subcontinent. Although he was himself illiterate, he encouraged poets, scholars and painters to come to his court. A Muslim, he increased government centralization, initiated programs that
 won the loyalty of India\rquote s non-Islamic population, and showed himself willing to hear any man\rquote s complaint. FTP, identify this man whose strength, enlightenment and benevolence made him known as the greatest ruler of the Mughul empire.

\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Akbar}{
\par 
\par 23. Th
is star is one of the largest known, with a diameter varying from about 430 to about 650 times that of the sun. It lies about 310 light-years away and has an apparent magnitude of 0.4, making it one of the brightest stars in the sky. Its name is from the 
Arabic word for \ldblquote the giant\rquote s shoulder,\rdblquote  and is appropriate considering its location in Orion. FTP, name this star (not to be confused with a Michael Keaton movie).
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Betelgeuse}{ (be lenient on pronunciation, accept \ldblquote beetle juice\rdblquote )
\par }\pard \qj\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page }{\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 15: BONI}{\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {1. Identify these questions related to Catherine the Great of Russia, FTPE.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Catherine came to power because her husband, the tsar, was quite inept. When Catherine declared herself empress and autocrat 
on July 9, 1762, he abdicated and was assassinated eight days later.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Peter III}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab In 1774, this intelligent, ambitious man became Catherine\rquote s lover. Later becoming one of Catherine\rquote 
s ministers, he is best known for constructing artificial villages seen by the Empress during her tour of the south.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Grigory }{\b\ul Potemkin}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab 
Catherine first bought his library through an agent in Paris, and then appointed him librarian on an annual salary for life. He went to St. Petersburg in 1773 to thank her for her financial support and wrote his }{\i 
Plan of a University for the Government of Russia}{ for her. FTP, name this compiler of the }{\i Encyclop\'e9die}{.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Denis }{\b\ul Diderot}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 2. How much do you know about the beloved scientist, Marie Sklodowska (Schklo-Doe-ska), Born in
 1867, died in 1934 on the fourth of July, god bless her. Answer these questions about this lovely lady for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab First, FTP, give her married name, for which she is much better known. 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ulw Curie}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab Now that you are better acquainted with
 Ms. Sklodowska, perhaps you can tell me the two elements that she has co-discovered with Pierre to help her win those Nobel prizes for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ulw polonium}{ and }{\b\ulw radium}{ 
\par 
\par }{\b [Audio Bonus]}{
\par 3. Listen to these excerpts from Ralph [rafe] Vaughan Williams\rquote s }{\i Sancta Civitas}{, and answer these questions, 10 points each. [Play Clip #1]
\par a.\tab Identify the deceptively-named }{\i woodwind}{ instrument heard here. 
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\ul cor anglais}{ or }{\b\ul English horn}{ [do not accept or prompt on \ldblquote horn\rdblquote ]
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {b.\tab [Play Clip #2] Name the type of scale being played by the violin, which drops the fourth and seventh scale degrees from the major scale.
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul pentatonic}{ scale
\par c.\tab Scale degrees four and seven are separated by an augmented fourth. By what name is this interval better known?
\par \tab ANSWER: }{\b\ul tritone}{ or }{\b\ul diminished fifth}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {4. For ten points each, name the stage facilities used in theater production.
\par a.\tab This is a curved canvas or plaster backdrop used as a projection surface or simulation for the sky.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul cyclorama}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab This is a rolling platform on which scenery may be mounted.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul wagon}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab 
This is an above-stage area, most often found in proscenium theaters, in which people hoist unused scenery. It also contains hydraulic ropes and lengths of wood from which scenery pieces and lights can be hung.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul fly gallery}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\page 5. Answer these questions about a French army officer whose trial for treason began a 12-year controversy.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab First, name this Jewish man who was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1894 for selling military secrets to the Germans.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Alfred }{\b\ul Dreyfus}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab Lieutenant Colonel Georges Picquart later recognized this man\rquote 
s handwriting on the treasonable document that incriminated Dreyfus. This man was court-martialed in 1897 but acquitted by his fellow officers.  He ultimately fled to London, working as a translator, writer, and traveling salesman.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Ferdinand }{\b\ul Esterhazy}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab On Jan. 13, 1898, the novelist \'c9mile Zola wrote this open letter, published on the front page of the newspaper }{\i Aurore. }{
In it, Zola accused the army of covering up its mistaken conviction of Dreyfus and of acquitting Esterhazy on the orders of the Ministry of War.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER: \tab }{\b\ul \ldblquote J\rquote Accuse\rdblquote }{
\par }{\b\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {6. Identify the place, 30-20-10.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {30:\tab Its most important industry is the raising of livestock, and its groups of aboriginal peoples include the Ona in the west and the Yahgan in the south.
\par 20:\tab The main island of this archipelago was formerly known as King Charles South Land. The Argentine portion consists of this island and the Isla de los Estadas.
\par 10:\tab It was named by Magellan, when he sighted large fires blazing on the shore. The Indians who lived there usually kept many fires burning to warm themselves. FTP, name this \ldblquote land of fire.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Tierra del Fuego}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f0\fs22\cgrid 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {7. Many famous people have attended Yale University. For ten points each, name the following authors.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab He served as librarian of Congress and assistant secretary of state, but he is best known for poems like \ldblquote Ars, Poetica\rdblquote  and \ldblquote 
You, Andrew Marvell.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Archibald }{\b\ul MacLeish}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab Former Chairman of the Yale Daily News, this versatile author and editor went on to found the conservative journal }{\i National Review}{ in 1955. He is the author of }{
\i God and Man at Yale}{.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul W}{illiam Francis }{\b\ul Buckley}{, Jr.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Entering Yale at age 13, this firey Puritan propelled the Great Awakening and wrote many books to support his beliefs.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Jonathan }{\b\ul Edwards}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f0\fs22 
8. Well, with the millenium and Superbowl XXXIV approaching, we ask ourselves, What are we doing about the millenium bug, and what the hell is COBOL? Let\rquote s increase our awareness of old computer languages by asking some questions.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab First, FTP, what does COBOL stand for?
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f0\fs22 ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\f0\fs22\ulw COmmon Business-Oriented Language}{\f0\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab 
COBOL is only the second-oldest high-level programming language. For 15 points, name the oldest one. Hint: it was designed by IBM in the late 1950s, and the two most commo
n versions are IV, approved as the USASI standard in 1966, and 77, approved by ANSI in 1978. 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f0\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\f0\fs22\ulw Fortran}{\f0\fs22  or }{\b\f0\fs22\ulw Formula Translator}{\f0\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Lastly, for 5 points, name this language developed by Dennis Ritchie and Brian Kerninghan at Bell Labs in the mid-70\rquote s. I
ts first triumph came with the creation of UNIX, and currently this upgrade from the original, marked by the designation ++, is widely used. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ulw C}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\page 9. Answer these questions about economics for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab In 1958 a man plotted the unemployment rates and the rates of change of money wages for the United Kingdom from 1861 to 1957. What was his last name?
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\f0\ul Phillips}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab Name the 1995 Nobel prize winner who dispelled the Phillips curve by showing that infl
ation may continue to rise in the long run without a corresponding drop in unemployment.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 ANSWER:\tab Robert E. }{\b\f0\ul Lucas}{\f0 , Jr.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Like Lucas, what originator of the theory of rational expectations also criticized Keynesians models?
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 ANSWER:\tab John F. }{\b\f0\ul Muth}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {10. Identify these cities associated with Joan of Arc, FTPE.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Besieged since October 12, 1428, the battle for this city was a military turning point of the Hundred Years\rquote 
 War. The siege was broken when Joan entered the city with supplies in April 1429.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Orl\'e9ans}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab 
This city was the traditional place for the investiture of French kings. Despite the fact that the surrounding territory was being held by the English, Joan managed to bring Charles VII to this city on July 16, 1429, and his coronation took place on
 July 17. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Riems}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Finally, name this city, where Joan was tried and condemned as a heretic before being burned at the stake on May 30, 1431.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Rouen
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {11. James Joyce was a brilliant man, and his novels remain among the most intimidating works of literature created. Answer the following about this man for the stated number of points.

\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab First, he has two middle names. For five points each, what are they?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Augustine}{ }{\b\ul Aloysius}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab For ten points, all of nothing, what are the first and last names of the artist in Joyce\rquote s }{\i Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man}{?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Stephen Dedalus}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab For a final ten points, how many stories comprise Joyce\rquote s }{\i Dubliners}{?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul 15}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {12. Given a year and an author, identify the Caldecott Award-winning book for ten points each
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab 1982, Chris Van Allsburg\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Jumanji}{
\par b.\tab 1942, Robert McClosky.\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Make Way for Ducklings
\par }{c.\tab 1998, Paul O. Zelinsky\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Rapunzel}{
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {13. Answer the following about a Hindu god for ten points each.
\par a.\tab Which Hindu deity is worshiped as the protector and preserver of the world?
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Vishnu}{
\par b.\tab Although not associated with Jenna Elfman, Vishnu is also the restorer of one of the four ends of life. Name this end that is the religious and moral law governing individual conduct.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul dharma}{
\par c.\tab What sort of animal is Vishnu\rquote s mount, Garuda?
\par ANSWER:\tab a }{\b\ul bird}{
\par \page }{\b [Visual Bonus]
\par }{14. Some men just can't seem to stay out of trouble.  Take a nice person like this gentleman in the picture. 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Now, for ten points, tell me the real name of this Wu-Tang rapper.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Russel Tyrone }{\b\ul Jones}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab For another ten points, tell me the action for which was arrested for in Brooklyn in January 1999. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul shooting at policemen}{ (or equivalent)
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Good old ODB was also arrested for shoplifting in July of 1998. For a final 10 points, what item did he steal, or in what city, Tournament Director Ramin\rquote 
s hometown, did he do so?
\par }\pard\plain \s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul shoes}{ or }{\b\ul Virginia Beach}{, VA  (at Sneaker Stadium)
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par 15. Identify these \ldblquote  trans\rdblquote  terms from biology FTP each. 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab This is the process by which water evaporating from the leaves of a plant pulls water from the roots to the leaves. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw transpiration}{ 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab These chromosome fragments, discovered by Barbara McClintock, are also known as jumping genes. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw transposons}{ 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab This is the process by which bacteria change their genetic information by taking in free DNA from their environment; it was used in an 
experiment which helped show that DNA was the genetic material. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw transformation}{ (do not accept \ldblquote transduction\rdblquote  which does not use free DNA)
\par 
\par 16. Identify the following American gymnasts from the past decade for ten points each.
\par a.\tab Despite an ankle that she injured on her first attempt, the gymnast landed a vault to secure gold medals for the US Olympic team in 1996.
\par ANSWER:\tab Kerri }{\b\ul Strug}{
\par b.\tab Had this gymnast not missed both of her vaults, Kerri Strug would not have had to score well on hers. This young lady has been in the media recently for demanding to be declared a legal adult.
\par ANSWER:\tab Dominique }{\b\ul Moceanu}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab A three time national champion and 1991 all around World Champion, this gymnast was expected to bring home a slew of medals in Barcelona. She ende
d up bringing home a bronze from the team competition.
\par ANSWER:\tab Kimberly Lynn }{\b\ul Zmeskal}{
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {17. Daughters are everywhere, and this includes in Shakespeare plays. Answer the following about Shakespearean daughters for the stated number of points.
\par a.\tab For ten points, all or nothing, name King Lear\rquote s three daughters.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Cordelia}{, }{\b\ul Regan}{, }{\b\ul Goneril}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 b.\tab Now, for ten points each, tell me the first names of Shakespeare\rquote s two daughters.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\f0\ul Susanna}{\f0  and }{\b\f0\ul Judith}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\page 18. Although Princess Diana died quite a while ago, only recently has the investigation of her death come to a close. Let\rquote 
s relive the past and answer the following about her death.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Some sleazy reporters make their living following celebrities and selling photos to tabloids. Give the 9-letter Italian name for these \ldblquote reporters\rdblquote 
, who are blamed for helping causing the fatal car crash.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul paparazzi}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab For 5 more points, what brand of car was Diana in when she died?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Mercedes}{-Benz
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab For 10 points, this man, Diana\rquote s driver, was taking anti-depression medication. Blood analysis showed he was inebriated. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Henri }{\b\ul Paul}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {d.\tab For a final ten points, identify the lone survivor of this car crash, one of Diana\rquote s bodyguards.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Trevor }{\b\ul Rees-Jones}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {19. For the stated number of points, answer the following that relate to a single Roman goddess.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab For 5 points, who was the Roman goddess of handicrafts, the professions, the arts, and later, war.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Minerva}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab For 10 points, Minerva, Juno, and Jupiter formed a triad. By what name was it known?
\par }\pard\plain \s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Capitoline}{ triad
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab One Roman emporer claimed Minerva\rquote s special protection. Because of this, her worship increased greatly under his reign. For 15 points, name him.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Domitian}{
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {20. Given a group of artists, name the art style or movement to which they belong for ten points each.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 a.\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls2\adjustright {Jean Arp, Jose Miro
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul surrealism}{
\par b.\tab William de Kooning, Jackson Pollock, Franz Kline
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul abstract expressionism}{
\par c.\tab Antoine Watteau, Francois Boucher, Honore Fragonard
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul rococo}{
\par 
\par 21. How well do you know your old school rap songs? FTPE, tell us who sang:
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Sucker MC\rquote s\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Run-DMC}{
\par b.\tab The Message\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Grandmaster Flash}{ and the }{\b\ul Furious Five}{ 
\par c.\tab Rapper\rquote s Delight\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Sugarhill Gang}{
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {22. Answer these numerical questions about the Empire State Building for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab For 10 points, within 50 feet, how tall is the building?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul 1403 to 1503}{ (it\rquote s 1453 feet tall)
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab The building has two observations decks that tourists can visit. For five points each, on what floors are these decks?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul 86}{ and }{\b\ul 102}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab The Empire State Building was completed in 1931. For ten points, within two years, For how many years was it the world\rquote s tallest building?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul 38 to 42}{ (its reign was 40 years)
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\page 23. FTPE, identify these events leading up to the 1917 Russian Revolution, which overthrew Tsar Nicholas II and the Romanov dynasty.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Taking place on January 22, 1905, this event occurred when priest Georgy Gapon arranged a peaceful demonstration to present workers\rquote 
 requests for reforms. Nicholas was away from the Winter Palace, but the chief of security police ordered police to fire upon the demonstrators, resulting in more than 100 deaths.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Bloody Sunday}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab 
Faced with rebellions all over Russia, Nicholas issued this document later that year, effectively ending unlimited autocracy in Russian and ushering in an era of constitutional monarchy. It also agreed to guarantee civil libert
ies, establish a broad franchise, and create a legislative body whose members would be popularly elected and whose approval would be necessary before the enactment of any legislation.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul October Manifesto
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Finally, name the legislative body, whose name means \ldblquote deliberation\rdblquote 
, created by the October Manifesto, which met four times between 1906 until its dissolution at the time of the revolution in 1917.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Duma}{
\par 
\par }}