{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times;}{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f28\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f29\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f31\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f32\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f33\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid 
\sbasedon0 \snext20 Plain Text;}{\s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext21 Bonus First Line;}{\s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext22 Bonus Part;}{\s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\adjustright \f2\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext23 Preformatted;}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator Victor Kao}{\creatim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr7\min2}{\revtim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr17\min6}
{\printim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr17\min6}{\version8}{\edmins21}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords3087}{\nofchars17600}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0
\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round X.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\lang1024 3}}}{ of 7
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 3: TOSSUPS}{\fs24 

\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VIII. }{\fs24 Round 3.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24  PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\fs24\lang1024 2}}}{\fs24  of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs19\fs24  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\cs19\fs24\lang1024 9}}}{\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1999 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {1. These World War II German aircraft had unique air brakes and bomb racks that made them effective attack planes, and they worked well in the blitzkrieg invasions of Poland, the Low Co
untries, and France. Their sirens added to their demoralizing effect, but their reign of the skies ended after the Battle of Britain, where their slow speed left them vulnerable to fast fighter planes and early warning radar. FTP, name this dive-bomber.

\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Stuka}{ (also accept }{\b\ul JU-87}{)
\par 
\par 2. The son of Russian immigrants, he was a gifted and talented choreographer and director, whose work in theater and ballet helped to change the face of the American musical.  FTP, name this five-time Tony award winner, who
 died on July 29, 1998 after suffering a stroke, who gave us }{\i Gypsy}{, }{\i Fiddler on the Roof, Peter Pan}{,}{\i  The King and I}{, and }{\i West Side Story}{.  
\par ANSWER:\tab Jerome }{\b\ul Robbins}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 3. }{The founder of this Christian sect believed that the world was not completely incorrigible
, and that hope of a heaven on Earth still existed.  The notion of predestination was seen as comforting, and derivations of its doctrine an}{\f0 
d practices became distinctive aspects of the Presbyterian and Reformed churches.  FTP, name this form of Protestantism, similar to Lutheranism, which takes its name from its sixteenth-century French founder John.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\f0\fs22\ul Calvinism}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {4. Driven by frustration against China\rquote s repressive society, they formed in middle schools and universities in China. Idealistic and naive,
 they wanted to clear away the last traces of elitist influence and answered Mao\rquote s partisan call to \ldblquote bombard the headquarters.\rdblquote 
 Unfortunately, their actions soon degenerated into a chaotic mix of cruel violence and intense factional fighting. By 1969, the 
Chinese Army had to be called out to subdue them. FTP, identify this youthful communist movement that fueled the Cultural Revolution.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: \tab the }{\b\ul Red Guards}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {5. He was born with the last name Persons, but changed it following his mother\rquote s remarriage.  His autobiographical works \ldblquote A Christmas Memory\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Thanksgiving Visitor\rdblquote 
 detail his life bouncing between elderly relatives in Louisiana and Alabama.  His first novel, }{\i Other Voices, Other Rooms}{ tells of a 13-year-old boy\rquote s search for his father.  For ten po
ints, name this southern writer who penned an account of a multiple murder in Kansas, }{\i In Cold Blood}{, in 1965.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Truman }{\b\ul Capote}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {6. In Euripides' }{\i Trojan Women}{, he is portrayed as a weak man who lacks the resolve to kill his wife. In Homer, he is seen as a wealthy and hospitable king. In Euripides' }{\i Andromache}{
, he is portrayed as a mean and unpleasant man. FTP, name this Spartan king, Agamemnon\rquote s younger brother and Helen\rquote s true husband who defeated Paris in a duel.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Menelaus}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {7. This
 26-year old wide receiver was drafted by the Buffalo Bills in the 1996 draft as the team's first-round pick. The Mississippi native starred at Mississippi State University and now ranks third all-time in catches and yards at the school. Name this Bills r
eceiver who led the NFL in receiving yards this season, but may be more remembered for a fumble after a 65-yard catch in this season\rquote s playoffs at Miami.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Eric }{\b\ul Moulds}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {8. Preoccupied with his manhood, this writer frequently boxed with one of his fathers-in-law, a former prizefighter. He later continued this interest, covering the Rumble in the Jungle for \ldblquote Esquire\rdblquote 
 magazine, an assignment which he recounted for the film \ldblquote When We Were Kings.\rdblquote  FTP, name this author, Harvard grad, and WWII veteran, most famous for 1948\rquote s \ldblquote The Naked and the Dead.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Norman }{\b\ul Mailer
\par }{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {9. Shortly after negotiating a 6.45 billion-dollar financial transaction, this company announced an expansion at a Virginia heavy-duty truck plant, as well as the shutdown of a truck and bus
 plant in Scotland.  Having sold its car division to Ford Motor Company, one can't help but wonder whether its reputation for safety will survive.  FTP identify this Swedish auto manufacturer.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {ANSWER:\tab AB }{\b\ul Volvo}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {10. Probably the use of it to make corsets, k
nife handles, and umbrella ribs is discouraged because of the fervent attacks by the ASPCA. This is used by members of the Suborder Mysticeti to catch Krills and plankton, their main staples. In commercial fisheries, it is also known as whalebone, althoug
h the name is not actually true. For ten points, name this structure that replaces teeth for several species of whales. \line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Baleen}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {11. The number of orcs Gimli slew at the battle of Helms Deep.  The number of days of Patrick McGeowns's 1981 hunger st
rike.  The number of gallons of oil in a US barrel.  The length, in lines, of the Old English poem "Deor's Lament."  The number of nukes in Cuba with the potential of reaching the US on October 22, 1962. The meaning of "Life the Universe and Everything" i
n the }{\i Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy}{ series. FTP, what is this number?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul forty-two}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\sb360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0\fs22 12. This family of edible food is not fruit, vegetable, nor root. an herbaceous annu
al that  grows to about 20-40 inches in height, with a very sophisticated underground stem system known as stolons. the scientific name of these plants is Solanum tuberosum. For ten points,  name this family of plants, tubers of which are sold under such 
lables as Eastern, Russet,  and Idaho.  \line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\f0\fs22\ulw Potatoes}{\f0\fs22  (Accept Solanum Tuberosum on early buzz, and give the man some extra points  for such impressive knowledge \endash  just kidding) 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {13. He was born in Berkeley, Charles City County, Virginia in 1773, the t
hird son of a signer of the Declaration of Independence.  He attended Hampden-Sydney College, and then became a secretary of the Northwest Territory in 1798.  In 1800, he became the first governor of the Indiana Territory and later served in Congress.  Fo
r ten points, name this Whig, elected president in 1840, who served just 31 days in office.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: \tab }{\b\ul W}{illiam Henry }{\b\ul Harrison}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {14. While fall in the United States is marked by turkey, pilgrims, and Indians, you\rquote re likely to find different decorations in Mexic
o during this season. This unique holiday is marked by private altars set up in homes, visits to cemeteries, decorative skulls, music-playing skeletons, and a morbidly monikered bread. FTP, name this holiday celebrated on November 1}{\super st}{ and 2}{
\super nd}{.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Day of the Dead}{ (also accept }{\b\ul D\'eda de los Muertos}{)
\par }\pard \sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 15. This property of light is responsible for the Poisson spot, a point of light which appears in the center of the shadow of a solid disc.  The Huygens (HIGH-gens) principle attempts to explain this property, 
whose name may be preceded by either Fresnel (freh-NELL) or Fraunhofer.  FTP, identify this wave property, in which light bends around the edges of an obstacle.\line ANSWER:\tab   }{\b\ulw Diffraction}{ (accept }{\b\ulw interference}{
 before Huygens principle)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright { 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0\fs22 16. 768 years before, the Tambora volcano on the island of Sumbawa erupted with greater, but the tsunami generated by the collapse of }{\i\f0\fs22 this other}{\f0\fs22 
 volcano killed 36,000 in Java and Sumatra. For ten points, name this volcano which erupted in 1883, causing colored sunsets around the world for two years. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ul Krakatoa}{ (accept }{\b\ul Krakatau}{)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {17. Kevin Smith, the director of the movies, }{\i Clerks}{, }{\i Mallrats }{and }{\i Chasing Amy}{, includes two certain characters in all of his three movies. Portrayed in the movies as small town drug dealers, this d
ynamic duo never fails to entertain. They were the inspiration for the comic, "Bluntman and Chronic," in }{\i Chasing Amy}{. FTP, name both of these characters, one of whom is played by the director.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Jay}{ and }{\b\ul Silent Bob}{
\par 
\par 18. He was born in Genoa in 1782, and is widely regarded as one of the greatest violinists of all time. His technical ability made some believe the force and speed of his performance were linked to supernatural powers, including the Devil. FTP, name this 
virtuoso who also composed violin concertos in D major and B minor, }{\i Moto Perpetuo}{, and is perhaps best known for his }{\i Twenty-Four Caprices}{ for violin solo.
\par ANSWER:\tab Niccolo }{\b\ul Paganini}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {19. }{\cgrid0 This Victorian author wrote 1000 words per hour, mostly during breakfast. He began his writing career in 1844 and his first major success was }{\i\cgrid0 The Warden}{
\cgrid0  in 1855, the first of his five Baretshire novels. His works grew increasingly focused on the mechanics of power in human life before he died in London in 1882. FTP, name this author of }{\i\cgrid0 Doctor Thorne}{\cgrid0 , }{\i\cgrid0 The Duke
\rquote s Children}{\cgrid0  and }{\i\cgrid0 Orley Farm}{\cgrid0 .
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Anthony }{\b\ul Trollope}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {20. Born in La Haye, he attended a Jesuit school for eight years. Studying law at the University of Poitiers, he never practiced. After several years in various armies, 
he devoted his life to philosophy and settled in the Netherlands. He rejected traditional methods of scholasticism and used rational inductive methods, through which he formulated his proof of God\rquote 
s existence. FTP, name this philosopher and mathematician who said \ldblquote }{\i Cogito ergo sum}{,\rdblquote  or \ldblquote I think, therefore I am.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Ren\'e9 }{\b\ul Descartes}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\sb360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0\fs22 21. When Nuclear fusion has gone to it\rquote 
s limit, this is the last element it transforms into.  This element, which also has an age named after it, makes up approximately five percent of  the earth\rquote 
s crust. For ten points, name this element, a lack of which will give you  hypochromic anemia. \line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\f0\fs22\ulw Iron}{\f0\fs22  or }{\b\f0\fs22\ulw Fe}{\f0\fs22  }{
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {22. Psychopathologist Eugen Bleuler defined this disorder as "an abnormal disintegration of mental functions." Found in about 1% of the world\rquote 
s population, this disease plagues its victims with disruptions in cognition, motivation, emotion and social relationships. Few patients actually exhibit all the symptoms, but they usually create their own world of delusions, an esp
ecially common one being paranoia. FTP, iden}{\f0 tify this psychosis that many often confuse with multiple-personality disorder.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul schizophrenia}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0 23. }{\f0\fs22 This state is home to Leacock, Bareville, Bird-in-hand, Intercourse, and Virginity. These towns, ironical
ly, lie in the Lancaster area, which is home to the largest group of Amish in the world.  For ten points, name this state, also home to Wilkes-Barre, Oil City, and York, and whose capital lies on the Susquehanna River at Harrisburg.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:}{\b \tab }{\b\ul Pennsylvania}{
\par  
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 3: BONI}{\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par }{\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 1.}{ }{\fs22 For each group of world cities, give the one with the highest population in 1996.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab Ankara, Barcelona, Chicago\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Chicago}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab Melbourne, Lisbon, Khartoum\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Melbourne}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {c.   Milan, St. Petersburg (Russia), Paris\tab \tab ANSWER: \tab }{\b\ul Paris}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {2. }{\fs22 I\rquote m going to give you a type of animal. In response, you will give me the name of a corresponding Beanie Baby for 5 points. You\rquote 
ll get a bonus five for all correct.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab white tiger\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Blizzard}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab giraffe\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Twigs}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab koala\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Mel}{\fs22 
\par d.\tab holiday penguin\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Zero}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {e.    tye-dye bear cub\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Sammy
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {3}{\fs22 . For ten points each, name the group of people most commonly associated with the following deities. For example, if I said "Zeus," you would say "Greeks."
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Ceres, goddess of agriculture.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Romans}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {b.\tab Itzamna, supreme creator and lord of fire.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Mayans}{
\par c.\tab Khons (aka Khonsu, Khensu, Chons), a youthful moon god.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Egyptians}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f0\fs22 4. I love dense things.  Maybe it\rquote s because I\rquote 
m dense and I just relate better to them. Since this is a physics question, we will have fun with specific gravity!
\par a. First, FTP, tell me what element has the highest specific gravity in the periodic table.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\f0\fs22\ulw Osmium}{\f0\fs22 
\par b. Everyone knows that the specific gravity of water is 1. If you didn\rquote t know this, get up slowly, hang your head in shame, and leave the room. Slowly, so you don\rquote 
t disturb other people.  For those people left in the room, tell me, FTP, at what temperature, to the nearest degree, is water at 1.00 g/ml?
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\f0\fs22\ulw 4 Degrees Celsius}{\f0\fs22  or }{\b\f0\fs22\ulw 277 Degrees Kelvin}{\f0\fs22  or }{\b\f0\fs22\ulw 39 Degrees Farenheit}{\f0\fs22 
\par c. For the final 10 points, what is the specific gravity of mercury, our favorite liquid at 20 degrees Celsius? You\rquote ll get credit if the answer is within 0.2 g/ml.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\f0\fs22\ulw 13.546}{\f0\fs22  grams per cubic centimeter (Give credit for }{\b\f0\fs22\ulw 13.346-13.746}{\f0\fs22 )}{
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {5. Identify the following about an early 20th century art movement, FPTE.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab This artistic movement was centered in Italy and emphasized the dynamism, speed, energy, and  po
wer of the machine and the vitality, change, and restlessness of modern life in general.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul futurism}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.\tab This Italian-French prose writer, novelist, poet, and dramatist was the ideological founder of Futurism, and coined the term \ldblquote Futurism\rdblquote  in his }{\i Futurist Manifesto}{.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Filippo Tommaso (Emilio) }{\b\ul Marinetti}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 c.\tab 
Italian painter, sculptor, and theorist of the Futurist movement in art,  he produced "Riot in the Gallery", "The City Rises", "Development of a Bottle in Space," and "Unique Forms of Continuity in Space."
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Umberto }{\b\ul Boccioni}{
\par \page 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {6. }{\cf1 Although \ldblquote my achy breaky heart\rdblquote  may have more poetic poignancy than \ldblquote my acute myocardial infarction,\rdblquote  doctors don\rquote 
t have time for that emotional garbage. Names need to be unintelligible to be of any use.  
\par a. For example, can you name, FTP, stationary clots that form in the blood vessels, especially those leading to and from the heart? 
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw\cf1 Thrombi }{\cf1  (also acc. \ldblquote Thrombus\rdblquote )
\par b. Or, FTP, what are clots, air bubbles or foreign objects traveling through the body in the blood stream? 
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw\cf1 Emboli}{\cf1   (Also acc. \ldblquote Embolus\rdblquote )
\par c. For ten more points, name the condition that occurs when blood flow to an organ is cut off. 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw\cf1 Ischemia}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {7. 30-20-10 Name the scientist.
\par 30pts: His correspondence with Hooke about attraction and repulsion led Hooke to accuse him of plagiarism later in life.
\par 20pts: In 1703, after giving up the Lucasian professorship at Cambridge, he was elected President of the Royal Society. He was knighted in 1705.
\par 10pts: His contributions to physics are recognized by the derived SI unit named after him. Despite all the groundbreaking work he did, he felt that his greatest accomplishment was dying a virgin.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Sir Issac }{\b\ulw Newton}{ 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 8. Name the current senator, 30-20-10
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 30pts:\tab He served as chief minority council in 1973 and 1974 on the Senate Watergate Committee.
\par 20pts:\tab An occasional actor, he had a minor roles in }{\i\fs22 The Hunt for Red October}{\fs22 . 
\par 10pts:\tab In 1994, he ran and won the special election for Al Gore\rquote s Senate seat.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Fred }{\b\ul Thompson}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {9. }{\fs22 For ten points each, name these characters in Harper Lee's }{\i\fs22 To Kill a Mockingbird}{\fs22 :
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab This man is accused of raping Mayella Ewell.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Tom }{\b\ul Robinson}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab Played by Robert Duvall in the Oscar winning movie, he places a ball of string and a watch into a hole in a tree and eventually ends up saving Jem from Barney Ewell.

\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Boo }{\b\ul Radley}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 c.\tab He moves to Maycomb to live with his Aunt Rachel
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Charles Baker }{\b\ul Harris}{ (accept }{\b\ul Dill}{)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 10.}{ }{\fs22 Identify these past or present NBA players from their nicknames for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 5pts:\tab The Human Highlight Film\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab Dominique }{\b\fs22\ul Wilkins}{\fs22 
\par 10pts:\tab The Glove\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab Gary }{\b\fs22\ul Payton}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {15pts:   Jungle Jim\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab Jim }{\b\ul Loscutoff}{ (LOSS-cue-toff)
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 11. For ten points each, answer these questions about the famously witty journalist and poet Dorothy Parker.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab She worked as a book and drama critic for this New York-based magazine, but was later removed from the
 staff for her caustic reviews such as, "This is not a novel to be tossed aside lightly.  It should be thrown aside with great force."
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Vanity Fair}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab She and two other writers from Vanity Fair, Robert Benchley and Robert Sherwood, formed the core of this informal luncheon club and literary group of the early 1900's.

\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab the }{\b\ul Algonquin Round Table}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 c.\tab After working for a time at }{\i\fs22 The New Yorker}{\fs22 , Parker published three volumes of verse, in 1926, 1928, and 1931.  Name any one of them.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Enough Rope}{ or }{\b\i\ul Sunset Gun}{ or }{\b\i\ul Death and Taxes}{\fs24 
\par }{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {12. Everybody loves matrices.  That means you. Answer the following questions, given the 2 by 2 matrix, listing upper left, upper right, lower left, lower right, 1, 2, 1, 2.
\par a. FTP, what is the determinant of this matrix? You have 15 seconds
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw 0}{
\par b. FTP, what is the product of this matrix multiplied by the vector (1,2)?  Assume that the matrix is on the left-hand side of the multiplication and the vector is on the right-hand side.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw 5,5}{ (acc. equivalents, eg \ldblquote 5 and 5\rdblquote  etc.)
\par c. FTP, in }{\i\ul Transformers the Movie}{ what is the name of the object that a dying Optimus Prime intends to give to Ultra Magnus, but is dropped by Prime and caught by Hot Rod?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab  the }{\b\ulw Matrix Of Leadership}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 13. 30-20-10, name the Russian.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 30pts:\tab 
Born in 1879, he grew up into a fine young Socialist, helping to organize the South Russian Workers' Union and spending almost five years imprisoned and exiled in Siberia for his activities.
\par 20pts:\tab Despite having worked with Vladimir Ulyanov on the revolutionary newspaper, Iskra, he joined the Mensheviks, who desired a democratic method for Socialism, instead of the Bolsheviks.
\par 10pts:\tab He led the anti-Stalin movement in Russia until his fateful encounter with an ax murderer in Mexico.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Leon }{\b\ul Trotsky}{ 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {14. Given the title of a recent album, give the artist who came out with it FTPE.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab }{\i\fs22 Bobby Digital in Stereo}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul RZA}{ (pronounced: ri-zah) (accept: Robert }{\b\ul Diggs}{, }{\b\ul the Abbott}{) 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab }{\i\fs22 Come On Over}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Shania }{\b\ul Twain}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 c.\tab }{\i\fs22 UP}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul REM}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 15. For five points apiece, and a bonus five for all correct, list the five nations of the Iroquois confederacy.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Seneca}{, }{\b\ul Cayuga}{, }{\b\ul Onondaga}{, }{\b\ul Oneida}{, }{\b\ul Mohawk}{
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 16. Given an African country, name its colonial ruler for 5 points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab Eritrea\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Italy}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab Nigeria\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Great Britain}{\fs22  (or equivalent)
\par c.\tab Mozambique\tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Portugal}{\fs22 
\par d.\tab Botswana\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Great Britain}{\fs22  (or equivalent)
\par e.\tab Now, for 5 points apiece, name the two African nations that were independent in 1920.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Ethiopia}{, }{\b\ul Liberia}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 17. We all know that standardized tests play an obscenely important role in determining our future course in life.  Answer the following questions FTP each\'85 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab What is the maximum possible Selection Index on the PSAT?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul 240}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab For 10 points, what is the organization that creates and distributes the SAT and PSAT?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Educational Testing Service}{ (prompt on ETS)
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 c.\tab What is the maximum possible score on the Biology SAT II subject test?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul 800}{
\par 
\par 18. For 15 points each, identify the 20th century painter from the description of his style and the title of his famous work.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab }{\i\fs22 Nighthawks}{\fs22  shows an all-night cafe and its few uncommunicative customers illuminate
d in the pitiless glare of electric lights, conveying this artist's characteristic overall atmosphere of eerie loneliness and solitude.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Edward }{\b\ul Hopper}{
\par b.\tab Although his works ran a gamut from realism to abstraction and to surrealism, this Italian immi
grant's most celebrated work is the "Brooklyn Bridge," a semi-abstract canvas that fused mystical fervor with modern engineering prowess in exultance of the romance, exuberance, and vitality of the 20th century American urban life.
\par ANSWER:\tab Joseph }{\b\ul Stella}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 19. For ten points each, answer these questions about a World War II novel.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab 
This novel was written in 1945, and details the changes in the aristocracy that came with the Second World War by following the travails of the Flyte family.  It focuses especial
ly on the young noble Sebastian Flyte and his friend, the narrator, Charles Ryder. Name it. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Brideshead Revisited}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab Who wrote }{\i\fs22 Brideshead Revisited}{\fs22 ?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Evelyn }{\b\ul Waugh}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 c.\tab In the novel, poor Sebastian Flyte has many character traits that seem to t
orment him, like his alcoholism, theatricality, and homosexuality.  But these at times pale in comparison to his problems with his religion.  FTP, name it.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Roman }{\b\ul Catholic}{ism
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {20. Name the philosophers from list of their works for ten points each.
\par a.\tab }{\i The Concept of Irony, Concluding Unscientific Postscript, Fear and Trembling, Either/Or}{
\par ANSWER:\tab Soren }{\b\ul Kierkegaard}{
\par b.\tab }{\i Science and Metaphysics}{, }{\i Science, Perception, and Reality}{, }{\i Empiricism and Philosophy of the Mind}{
\par ANSWER:\tab Wilfred }{\b\ul Sellars}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 c.\tab }{\i\cgrid0 The Age of Reason}{\cgrid0 , }{\i\cgrid0 The Reprieve}{\cgrid0 , }{\i\cgrid0 Iron in the Soul}{\cgrid0 ,}{\i\cgrid0  Being and Nothingness
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Jean-Paul }{\b\ul Sartre}{
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 21. \tab How well do you know your constitutional amendments? Let\rquote s see. For the stated number of points, answer the following.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab Which amendment protects against unwarranted search and seizure?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab the }{\b\ul fourth}{ amendment
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab Which amendment gives Congress the power to levy income taxes without apportionment among the several states, and without regard to any census or enumeration?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab the }{\b\ul sixteenth}{ amendment
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 c.\tab Which amendment says that no law regarding Senatorial or Representational salaries shall take effect until after an election of Representatives shall have intervened?

\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab the }{\b\ul twenty-seventh}{ amendment
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 22. Name the following would be assassins, ten points per person:
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 a.\tab These two women attempted to kill Gerald Ford. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Sarah Jane }{\b\ul Moore}{ and Lynette \ldblquote Squeaky\rdblquote  }{\b\ul Fromme}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 b.\tab  This man made the first assassination attempt in American history, trying to kill Andrew Jackson.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Richard }{\b\ul Lawrence}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 23. 30-20-10, name the author from clues.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 30pts:\tab She was born in Savannah, GA in 1925, and studied creative writing at the University of Iowa.  Her first short story was published in the magazine }{\i\fs22 Accent
}{\fs22  in 1946.
\par 20pts:\tab Her stories were often set in the rural South, and examined themes like human alienation and the characters' relationships with God.  The stories are often marked by unresolved conflicts, abrupt endings, and unexpected violence.
\par 10pts:\tab She is best known for her short story collections }{\i\fs22 A Good Man is Hard to Find}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 Everything that Rises Must Converge}{\fs22 .
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab Flannery }{\b\fs22\ul O'Connor}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 
\par }}