{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 
\additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 
footer;}{\s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext20 Bonus Part;}{\s21\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright 
\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext21 Bonus First Line;}{\s22\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext22 Plain Text;}{\s23\widctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\adjustright \f2\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext23 
Preformatted;}{\s24\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext24 Body Text 2;}{\*\cs25 \additive \fs16 \sbasedon10 annotation reference;}{\s26\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext26 annotation text;}{\s27\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright 
\fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext27 Body Text 2;}{\s28\qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs48 \sbasedon0 \snext28 Title;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1067623440\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc3\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid474373977}{\list\listtemplateid2059597878\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid1935700470}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid474373977\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid1935700470\listoverridecount0\ls2}}{\info
{\title SPARE PACKET: TOSSUPS}{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator Ramin Fatehi}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy5\hr23\min37}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy5\hr23\min37}{\printim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr17\min53}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords3251}{\nofchars18531}
{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws22757}{\vern113}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain 
\s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round X.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 3}}}{ of 7
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \s28\qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs48 {SPARE PACKET: TOSSUPS}{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VIII. }{\fs24 Round 16.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24  PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\fs24\lang1024 8}}}{\fs24  of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs19\fs24  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\cs19\fs24\lang1024 8}}}{\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1999 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {1. Every first-team All-American from NCAA men's basketball in the 1990's is still in the NBA, EXCEPT for this flashy shooting guard.  Drafted by the Heat in 1992, he was best known fo
r his dunking ability, and won both the 1993 and 1995 slam dunk championships in his brief career.  FTP, name this former Southern Cal standout.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Harold (Hal) }{\b\ul Miner}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {2. This group received its name from Herbert Huncke, a drug addict, thief, and prostitute who spent much of his life in prison.  He does, however, often appear in the novels of the group\rquote 
s most famous authors. For ten points, name this literary posse, centered in North Beach, Venice Beach, and Greenwich Village, whose members included Allen Ginsberg and William Burroughs.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul beat}{ generation or movement
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f0\fs22 3. While Clarence Darrow may be best known for taking on William Jennings Bryan, he also delivered an eloquent speech against the death penalty in a 1924 Illinois murder and kidnappin
g case. It was called the "trial of the century," although the century had just begun. FTP, name the defendants of this trial, one of whom was the crime-obsessed son of the retired Sears Roebuck vice president, the other an ornithologist and philosopher.

\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Nathan }{\b\ul Leopold}{ and Richard }{\b\ul Loeb}{
\par 
\par 4. He graduated from Cornell in 1976 with a degree in mechanical engineering, but he\rquote s not your run-of-the-mill science nerd.  While in college, he won a Steve Martin impersonation contest, and his desire both to per
form and inform led to his current gig.  With frequent shouts of \ldblquote Science rules!\rdblquote  and oh-so-clever song parodies, like En Lobe\rquote s \ldblquote Whatta Brain\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Let\rquote s Talk About Stress\rdblquote 
 by a Salt n\rquote  Pepa-esqe trio, his PBS show is one of the more entertaining and educational children\rquote s shows today.  FTP, name the eponymous show and star.
\par ANSWER:\tab Bill }{\b\ul Nye}{ the Science Guy
\par }\pard \sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {5. A synthetic, addictive narcotic that became available after World War II, this drug has some analgesic properties, but it is not usually prescribed 
for this purpose.  It is a white crystalline powder and can be taken orally.  Also known as dolophine, this drug is most commonly used in \ldblquote maintenance\rdblquote 
 therapy to ease withdrawal symptoms from heroin.  FTP, name this drug, described as \ldblquote sickly sweet\rdblquote  in }{\i Trainspotting,}{ that sounds like it is associated with a Protestant faith.\line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Methadone }{ (acc 
\ldblquote }{\b\ulw Dolophine}{\rdblquote  if it is given before it appears in the question)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {6. Born in 1925 in Kasai Province, he spent his early years working in such various roles are po
stal clerk and nurse's assistant. He first rose to prominence in 1958, when he founded the National Congolese Movement. Upon independence, he became prime minister, but was quickly toppled by General Mobutu. FTP, name this politician and revolutionary fro
m the Congo, assassinated in 1961.
\par ANSWER:\tab Patrice }{\b\ul Lumumba}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s24\qj\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs22 7. It is the story of a 1920s film star and his funny sidekick Cosmo making the transition from silent movies to talking pictures.  But when Don Lockwood falls for the sweet-voiced Kathy Selden, hi
s jealous co-star Lina Lamont vows to stir up some trouble.  Name, FTP, this motion picture musical starring Donald O\rquote Connor, Debbie Reynolds, and Gene Kelly.  
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Singing in the Rain}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s27\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {8. This 11th-century novel is a descriptive record of life among t
he nobility during the Heian [HAY-ahn] period, relating the story of the title Prince and his love of the different women in his life.  Reflecting a Buddhist conviction of vanity, it is the oldest full novel in the world.  FTP, name this work by Lady Mura
saki Shikibu.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Tale of Genji}{ or }{\b\i\ul Genji Monogatari}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 
9. In a rare show of honesty, this Indian religious movement admitted that children had suffered widespread physical and sexual abuse in its boarding schools during the 1970s. Headed by A.C. Bhakt
ivedanta [BOKKY-VEDAN-TA] Swami, this once-thriving Hindu sect still claims 90,000 U.S. adherents, though it\rquote s unlikely you\rquote 
ll see its bald-headed adherents prowling airports with flowers anymore. FTP, name this group, worshippers of the eight incarnations of Vishnu.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Hare Krishna}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {10. Horses\rquote  hooves, hens\rquote  feathers, sheep\rquote s wool, and your nails (provided they\rquote 
re not press-on), all contain large amounts of this fibrous structural protein. Its great strength is due to the large number of cysteines whi
ch from strong di-sulfide bonds and the way it forms sheets held together by hydrogen bonding.  FTP, name this famous protein.\line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Keratin}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 11. }{\f0\cgrid0 A bullyish and unmanageable child, he was expelled from two reform schools for stabbing his schoolmates wit
h a penknife. After choosing, strangely, to become a schoolteacher, he founded the socialist rag "The Class Struggle" and espoused socialist rhetoric he would later vociferously reject. FTP, name this man, Italy's youngest Prime Minister and the founder o
f the Fasci di Combattimento.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Benito Amilcare Andrea }{\b\ul Mussolini}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {12. Last August, a bomb exploded at a Planet Hollywood restaurant in this nation. In December, a synagogue was bombed. On New Year\rquote s Day, a car bomb exploded on a waterfront site popula
r with tourists. Early in January, police fired on Moslems protesting the visit of Tony Blair. FTP name this explosion-prone nation that has most recently been victimized by a bomb at the Cape Town police headquarters.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul South Africa}{
\par }\pard \sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {13. . The middle
 of this constellation lies almost exactly on the celestial equator.  Several famous stars are included in it, including a favorite shore-leave destination on the Enterprise.  FTP, name this once blinded hunter of Greek myth and you\rquote 
ve named the constellation. \line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Orion}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
14. This British author was born with the last name Straussler in Czechoslovakia in 1937, and got to England in 1954 by way of India and a British Officer stepfather. He began his writing career as a journalist and dramatist of works such as }{\i Arcadia}
{, but he is most famous for his slantwise takes on Shakespeare, first in a brilliantly witty and absurd play, and then as a screenwriter for the recent movie }{\i Shakespeare in Love}{. FTP, name this author of }{\i Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead}
{.
\par ANSWER:\tab Tom }{\b\ul Stoppard}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {15. For some reason, these folks are always typified as scary people in the media. Sandra Bullock ended up being one, but that wasn\rquote 
t really her given occupation. Chris Farley was not credited for his role as an angry one, but he did get to check out Veronica Vaughan. FTP identify this profession that includes Otto from }{\i The Simpsons}{ and Mrs. Crabtree from }{\i South Park}{.

\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul bus driver}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {16. Annexed by Britain in 1878, this port became part of South Africa in 1910, but its administrat
ion was handed to South-West Africa in 1922. An important port and also a railway and industry center, it became a source of contention after Namibia's 1990 independence. FTP, name this city, finally ceded to Namibia in 1994 and now a free-trade zone.

\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Walvis}{ Bay
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {17. Though he was of Irish descent, he spent almost his whole life in South America, where he earned fame as a revolutionary leader of the 19}{\super th}{
 century. He took over the Chilean government in 1810 while Spain was fighting off Napoleon. Defe
ated by the Peruvian viceroy, he returned in 1817 with Argentine general Jose de San Martin, and defeated the Spanish at Chacabuco, insuring Chile's independence. FTP, name this first Supreme Director of Chile with an Irish-sounding name.
\par ANSWER:\tab Bernardo }{\b\ul O'Higgins
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
18. When her husband is killed by her brother, she vows to remain chaste for the rest of her life, rejecting the courtship of many eligible men. However, her vow breaks miserably upon the arrival of Aeneas, the handsome leader of the Trojans, wh
o stops by on his way to Ausonia, also known as Italy.  Despite their mutual feelings for each other, Aeneas is urged to leave her, for his fate is to marry Lavinia and found Rome.  FTP, name this queen of Carthage who resorts to self-immolation in her de
spair and fury.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Dido}{
\par 
\par 19. Born in 1752, this New York native served in the Continental Congress from 1778-79. After moving to Philadelphia, he served five years as the assistant to the superintendent of finance under the Articles of Confederation.  
While in this post, he formed the basis for the present U.S. monetary system.  FTP name this Pennsylvania delegate to the Constitutional Convention who is responsible for much of the Constitution\rquote 
s wording and was not related to a contemporary named Robert.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul G}{ouverneur }{\b\ul Morris}{ (do not accept just Morris)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {20. }{\cf1 In the }{\i\cf1 Aeneid}{\cf1 , this Trojan priest of Neptune opposed the goal of the Greek Sinon, calling the Trojans to, \ldblquote 
Fear the Greeks, even when they bring gifts. His arguments fail in the end, especially i
n the face of a disaster that seems to the Trojans to be a warning from the gods. For ten points, name the wary Trojan who is killed, along with his two sons, by a pair of snakes from the sea.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul\cf1 Laocoon}{\cf1  (Lao kon)}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 21. Born in Rome and educated in Mon
aco, he tried to synthesize poetry and the visual arts, ultimately having a significant influence on French poetry and modern art. His outstanding works include }{\i\f0 The Cubist Painters, The Poet Assassinated, Caligrammes, and Alcools}{\f0 
. For ten points, name this friend of Pablo Picasso who is credited with coining the term "surrealist" in reference to one of his dramas.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER: Guillaume }{\b\ul Apollinaire}{ (de Kostrowitsky)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {22. Called }{\i aogai}{ in Japanese and }{\i lo tien}{ in Chinese, this artistic technique originated in Ming 
dynasty China. Used mainly to decorate small objects and miniatures, this process involved decorating lacquer ware with designs of shaped pieces of blue-green \ldblquote sea ear\rdblquote 
 shell. Gold and silver engraving sometimes accompanied the shell inlay. FTP, give the most common western name for this artistic method.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul lac burgaut\'e9}{
\par }\pard \sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {23. This force has mu has its coefficient when calculating friction on inclined surfaces, and can be considered the force with which a surface \ldblquote pushes back.\rdblquote  FTP, name this \ldblquote ordinary
\rdblquote  force that is perpendicular to the force on an object.\line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Normal}{ force
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page }{\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 6: BONI}{\fs24 
\par \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {1. Given the common name of a bone in your body, give its medical name FTP.
\par a. The kneecap
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Patella}{
\par b. The shoulder blade
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Scapula}{
\par c. The collar bone
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Clavicle }{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s21\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {2. Identify the following related to the Franco-Prussian War, which lasted from July 1870-May 1871, FTPE.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a. \tab He saw war with France as an opportunity to bring the South German st
ates into unity with the Prussian-led North German Confederation and build a strong German Empire.  Name this Prussian statesman founded the Prussian empire and served as its chancellor for its first nineteen years.  
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Otto von }{\b\ul Bismarck}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab Bismarck 
used this, the report of a July 13, 1870 encounter between King William I of Prussia and the French ambassador, purposely to offend the French government and incite the war.  Bismarck edited the report by omitting parts in the men\rquote 
s conversation and made it seem that each man had insulted the other, touching off an intensified demand}{\cs25\v\fs16 {\*\atnid IAC}{\*\atnauthor ITS Academic Computing}\chatn {\*\annotation \pard\plain \s26\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid 
{\field{\*\fldinst {PAGE \\# "'Page: '#'\line '"}{\cs25\fs16   }}{\fldrslt }}{\cs25\fs16 \chatn }}}{ for war in both Paris and Berlin.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Ems Telegram}{ or }{\b\ul  Ems Dispatch}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab This treaty ended the war and allowed the Prussians to annex Alsace and half of Lorraine.  It also required France to pay an indemnity of 5 billion francs to the Prussians.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Treaty of }{\b\ul Frankfurt
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {3. Name these Greek mythological pairs. You'll get 15 points for both members, 5 points for just one.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab They were the sole survivors of the flood sent by
 Zeus to drown the world and its degenerate race of mankind. When the waters sank back into the earth, they created a new race of humans by throwing stones.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Deucalion}{ and }{\b\ul Pyrrha}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab They were a pious Phrygian couple who hospitably received Zeus and 
Hermes who were disguised as wayfarers. As a reward, their cottage was turned into a temple, of which they became priest and priestess. Long after, they were granted their wish to die at the same moment, being turned into trees.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Philemon}{ and }{\b\ul Baucis}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s21\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {4. Eugene O'Neill won the first of his four Pulitzer Prizes in 1920 for }{\i Beyond the Horizon}{.  Identify his other Pulitzer prize-winners, given a short description.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab His second Pulitzer, it tells the story of the daughter of a Swedish captain who is sent
 to Minnesota and forced to live a life of prostitution, but eventually finds happiness with a likable but unimaginative young sailor.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Anna Christie}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab His third Pulitzer, it was revolutionary in both style and length.  It is the saga of Everywoman
, who ritualistically acts out her roles as daughter, wife, mistress, mother, and platonic friend.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Strange Interlude}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab His fourth Pulitzer, produced posthumously, spans one day in the life of a family,  revealing the mother as a defeated drug addi
ct, the father as a man frustrated in his career and a failure as a husband and father, the older son as a bitter alcoholic, and the younger son as a tubercular, disillusioned youth with only the slenderest chance for physical and spiritual survival.

\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Long Day\rquote s Journey Into Night}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s21\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {5. Identify the famous dead white American man. You\rquote 
ll get 30 points if you get it from a description of the weapons system named after him, 15 if on a historical clue, and 5 if on the first name and year of birth.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {30:\tab Ove
r 1,000 feet long and displacing 95,000 tons, it is one of the largest ships ever built. Launched in 1972, it participated in the ill-fated Iranian hostage rescue mission, as well as Operation Desert Storm.  It is designated CVN 68 and gives its name to a
n entire class of warships.  
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {15:\tab He commanded the United States Pacific Fleet throughout World War II.
\par 5:\tab His first name is Chester, and he was born in 1885.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: Chester William }{\b\ul Nimitz}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {6. To become a celebrity, it seems to help to change their names. Given the following birth names, give their better known stage name, FTPE.
\par a.\tab Paul Hewson\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Bono}{ (of U2)
\par b.\tab Michael Douglas\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab Michael }{\b\ul Keaton}{
\par c.\tab Steveland Judkins\tab ANSWER:\tab Stevie }{\b\ul Wonder}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {7. 30-20-10. Name the element.
\par 30pts: \tab Peter Jacob Hjeml, upon purifying it in 1782, gave it a name derived from \ldblquote lead\rdblquote  in Greek.
\par 20pts: \tab It is used as an alloying agent to add strength to steel.  It adds hot strength and corrosion resistance.  It has an atomic weight of 95.94 amu.
\par 10pts: \tab Due to its high melting point, it is used as a heating element in electric furnaces.  It is also found in some forms of stainless steel and chrome for accenting way-cool cars.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Molybdenum }{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s21\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {8. Answer these questions on what\rquote s been going on in the Republican camp since Gingrich\rquote s resignation for}{\cgrid0  ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 a.\tab 
This hot-tempered Louisianan, chairman of the Appropriations Committee was the favorite to take over as Speaker. However, he resigned from the House after allegations of extramarital affairs came to the surface.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Robert }{\b\ul Livingston}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 b.\tab This Oklahoma representative and former pro sports star tried unsuccessfully to run against Dick Armey for House Majority Leader.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Steve }{\b\ul Largent}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 c.\tab Born in New Haven and fluent in Spanish, this amiable governor won reelection comfortably as a "compassionate conservative", emphasizing his devotion to minority education.

\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab George W. }{\b\ul Bush}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s21\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {9. }{\cgrid0 For ten points each, answer the following about Sumerian cuneiform.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Despite the similar use of signs, there is actually little basis for connecting Sumerian cuneiform with this relatively more recent character system used in ancient Egypt.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul hieroglyphics}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab This is an idea espousing the interpretation of pictures according to their usual pronunciations instead of the objects depicted.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul rebus}{ principle
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab This is the language from which the Assyrian and Babylonian dialects that use cuneiform are derived. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Akkadian}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s21\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {10. For the stated number of points, name the NFL franchise whose defense was once known by these nicknames.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {5:\tab The Steel Curtain\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab Pittsburgh }{\b\ul Steelers}{
\par 10:\tab The Orange Crush\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab Denver }{\b\ul Broncos}{
\par 15:\tab The Doomsday Defense\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab Dallas }{\b\ul Cowboys}{
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par 11. Answer the following questions, for the stated number of points.
\par a.\tab FTP, identify the Swiss psychologist who lived from 1896-1980, known for his pioneering work on the development of psychology in children.  He identified four stages of a child\rquote s mental growth.
\par ANSWER:\tab Jean }{\b\ul Piaget}{
\par b.\tab FFPE, identify the four stages of a child\rquote s mental growth, according to Piaget.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Sensorimotor}{, }{\b\ul Preoperational}{, }{\b\ul Concrete Operational}{, and }{\b\ul Formal Operational
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s21\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {12. Answer these questions about mosaics.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab FTP, these are small, colored, closely set cube pieces embedded in plaster or cement, and used to decorate walls, ceilings, and floors, as well as sculptures and panels.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul tesserae}{ or }{\b\ul tesselae}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab For 5 points each, name the two Byzantine rulers whose imperial processions are featured in full-length depictions flanking the apse of the Church of San Vitale.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b Justinian I}{ and }{\b\ul Theodora}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab 
FTP, name this late 7th century Islamic monument, which contains mosaics of acanthus leaves, cornucopias, palm trees, and vases, and whose tesserae are set against gold backgrounds with blue and green shades.
\par }\pard \s20\widctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Dome of the Rock}{
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s21\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {13. Identify these terms from Greek tragedy addressed by Aristotle in his }{\i Poetics}{, for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Greek for \ldblquote purgation\rdblquote  or \ldblquote purification,\rdblquote  this describes the effects of true tragedy on the spectator. Aristotle states that the purpo
se of tragedy is to arouse "terror and pity" and thereby effecting this emotional release. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul catharsis}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab Greek for \ldblquote to err,\rdblquote  it is also called the tragic flaw, an inherent defect or shortcoming in the hero of a tragedy, who is in other respects a s
uperior being favored by fortune.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul hamartia}{ (do not accept hubris-- that means overwhelming pride, a form of hamartia)
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Greek for \ldblquote reversal,\rdblquote  it is the turning point in a drama after which the plot moves steadily to its denouement. It is discussed by Aristotle in the }{\i Poetics}{
 as the shift to the tragic protagonist's fortune from good to bad, often in the form of an ironic twist.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul peripeteia}{
\par 
\par 14. Answer the following questions about Isak Dinesen for the stated number of points:
\par a.\tab For 10, Isak Dinesen was the pseudonym of what European noblewoman?
\par ANSWER:\tab Baroness Karen }{\b\ul Blixen}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 b.\tab For 5, what semi-autobiographical book recounted Blixen\rquote s experiences as a plantation-owner in Kenya?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Out of Africa}{
\par c.\tab For 15, to what Kenyan tribe--the largest in Kenya and the home tribe of Jomo Kenyatta--did Blixen\rquote s plantation workers belong?
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Kikuyu}{ or }{\b\ul Giguyu}{ or }{\b\ul Gekoyo}{ or }{\b\ul Agekoyo}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 15. 30-20-10. Name the state from physical features.
\par 30:\tab Millwood Lake, De Grey Lake, Saline River
\par 20:\tab Ouachita Mountains, White River, Bull Shoals Lake
\par 10:\tab Hot Springs National Park, Ozark Plateau
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Arkansas}{\tab 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {16. The world is filled with important "Y" shaped things. Funny how this question is being used in a Yale tournament. Maybe there's a message here. Answer the f
ollowing questions about Y-shaped things FTP each.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab These proteins are crucial for immune function.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul antibodies}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab Present mainly in ground-dwelling birds, this bone has magical powers and bestows infinite efficacy upon the holder of the larger piece when it is broken in two.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul wishbone}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Needing 1.21 gigawatts to get going, this is the device that makes time travel possible.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul flux capacitor}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {17. Identify this famous historical battle on a 30-20-10 basis.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {30:\tab It was the first engagement of the War of the Third Coalition and forced the Treaty of Pressberg.
\par 20:\tab It happened in Moravia on December 2, 1805. 68,000 French troops defeated a combined Russian and Austrian force of almost 90,000.
\par 10:\tab Napoleon was in pretty good company because two other emperors were on the battlefield too. They lost, though. Name this battle also known as \ldblquote The Battle of the Three Emperors.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSW\'c9R:\tab The Battle of }{\b\ul Austerlitz}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {18. FTPE, name these major contributors to the wonderful world of wax.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Imprisoned dur
ing the French Revolution, this Swiss modeler was forced to make death masks for many of the guillotine's famous victims.  In 1835, she founded her own Exhibition of wax figures, which to this day remains a popular London tourist attraction.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Madame (Marie) }{\b\ul Tussaud}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab 
Admired by Italian futurists, this Italian-born Frenchman was noted for his wax-over-plaster modeling, a technique that helped him replicate the effects of atmosphere and light on his subjects.  His most well-known projects include }{\i La Rieuse}{ (}{\i 
Laughing Woman}{) and }{\i L'Homme qui Lit}{ (}{\i Man Reading}{).
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Medardo }{\b\ul Rosso}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {19. For ten points each, name the characters from everyone's favorite Homeric epic about the Trojan War, the}{\i  Iliad}{.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 a.\tab This Argive captain, the son of Tydeus, stabs Aphrodite in the wrist after she has whisked her son Aeneas from harm's way.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Diomedes}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 b.\tab A tiff over whose captive princess is whose between Achilles and this commander of the Greek forces leads to the former's pouty refusal to fight and to the Greeks' subse
quent troubles in the war.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Agamemnon}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 c.\tab This Trojan ally, co-commander of the Lycians, is killed by Patroclus after Hera convinces his father Zeus not to change his fated doom.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Sarpedon}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {
\par 20. }{\cgrid0 You're American, right? Well, then name the year in which each of these territories became American for ten points each:
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Louisiana Purchase\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul 1803}{
\par b.\tab The Oregon Country\tab \tab ANSWER: \tab }{\b\ul 1846}{
\par c.\tab Florida \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul 1819}{
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {21. \tab We do our best to but the \ldblquote ICK!\rdblquote  back into Physics. Answer these revolutionary questions.
\par a.\tab The torque is the product of two quantities.  Name them FTP each.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Force}{ and }{\b\ulw Radius}{
\par b.\tab What is the Greek symbol for angular velocity?
\par ANSWER:\tab   }{\b\ulw Omega}{
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {22. Identify the trigonometric identity FTPE.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 a.\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls2\adjustright {sine over cosine
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Tangent}{ (acc. TAN)
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 b.\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls2\adjustright {one over cosine
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Secant}{ (acc. SEC)
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 c.\tab}}\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls2\adjustright {cosine over sine  
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: \tab }{\b\ul Cotangent}{  (acc.. COT)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s21\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {23. For ten points each , answer the following questions about religious cults.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab This group consists of many recognizable names, such as Kelly Preston and Bruce Willis, and they really don't like being called a cult, claiming legitimacy.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Church of }{\b\ul Scientology}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab Give the full name of the leader of the Holy Spirit Association for the Unification of World Christianity, whose followers are known as the moonies.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Sun Myung Moon}{ or }{\b\ul Moon Sun Myung}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab  Name the leader of Aum Shinrikyo, the group responsible for the gas attacks in Tokyo subway systems in March of 1995.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Shoko }{\b\ul Asahara}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }}