{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times;}{\f6\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f28\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}
{\f29\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f31\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f32\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f33\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \snext0 Normal;}{\s2\fi-585\li585\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx585{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec }
\ls1\outlinelevel1\adjustright \i\f6\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 
header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{
\s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext20 Body Text 2;}{\s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext21 Plain Text;}{\s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext22 
Bonus Part;}{\s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon22 \snext23 Bonus First Line;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid640471220\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc3\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \s2\fi-585\li585\jclisttab\tx585 }{\listname ;}\listid1712655761}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1712655761\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator Victor Kao}
{\creatim\yr1999\mo2\dy2\hr23\min23}{\revtim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr17\min7}{\printim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr17\min6}{\version17}{\edmins91}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords3444}{\nofchars19633}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale129\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i 
Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round X.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 3}}}{ of 7
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 4: TOSSUPS}{\fs24 

\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VIII. }{\fs24 Round 4.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24  PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\fs24\lang1024 2}}}{\fs24  of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs19\fs24  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\cs19\fs24\lang1024 10}}}{\fs26 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {1. Born in Kingston, Jamaica in 1945, he turned to music in the 1960\rquote s, and his band the Wailers scored their first hit, \ldblquote Simmer Down,\rdblquote  in 1964. After the 1973 release of the album }{\i Cat
ch a Fire}{, he became a superstar. His success continued until he died of cancer May 11, 1981. FTP, name this reggae pioneer who wrote such songs as \ldblquote Buffalo Soldier\rdblquote , \ldblquote Stir It Up\rdblquote  and \ldblquote 
I Shot the Sheriff.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Bob }{\b\ul Marley}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {2. It was the author's first n
ovel, written when she was merely 23, yet it was her best seller and is the most critically acclaimed of her works. The novel centers around the paradoxically named mute Singer, his friend Antonopolus, Dr. Copeland, Jake Blount, and the young heroine Mick
 Kelly.  For ten points, name this book which reaches his climax when Singer shoots himself in the chest upon learning of Antonopolus's death, written by Carson McCullers.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul The Heart is a Lonely Hunter}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {3. His memoir's title, "From Emperor to Citizen
", accurately reflects the direction of his life. After ruling his nation as toddler, he escaped from his palace and took the throne of another country, Manchukuo, as the puppet of Japan. After being captured by the Russians, he was returned in 1950 to Ch
ina, where he finished life as a mechanic in a botanical workshop. FTP, name the last Manchu emperor of China.
\par ANSWER:\tab Henry }{\b\ul Pu Yi}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {4. He was defeated by fierce segregationist John Patterson in 1958, and afterwards vowed that he would not be "out-niggered" 
again.  At his first inauguration as governor in 1963, he first used his signature line, "Segregation now, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever!"  FTP, name this Alabama governor who was paralyzed by Arthur Bremer's assassination attempt and who late
r apologized for his racist views.
\par ANSWER:\tab George Corley }{\b\ul Wallace}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 5. This 18th century composer never attended a proper school, which was customary for children of that time. Instead, he was taught by his father Leopold, who was a respectable man in Salzbur
g. When he grew up, he disobeyed his father by proposing to Aloysia Weber. Their wedding proceeded well until the moment when Aloysia rejected the issued vows, giving Leopold the right to say "I told you so." FTP, name this child prodigy who composed }{
\i Twinkle Twinkle}{ at age 6.
\par ANSWER:\tab Wolfgang Amadeus }{\b\ul Mozart}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\sb360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0\fs22 
6. Also referred to as Vaccina, this virus should be tried and hung for treason in the viral courts for helping humans discover a process called immunization. Predominant in  cows, this virus causes mild
 eruptions in the skin for humans, causing minor irritation.  For ten points, name this virus, which gave Edward Jenner a way to combat a deadly disease  called smallpox. \line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\f0\fs22\ulw Cowpox}{\f0\fs22  
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par 7. Nearly all his paintings and drawings are of a single figure.  
His style emphasizes elongated bodies, long necks, and oval faces.  He was born in Leghorn, Italy in 1884, and died of overuse of drugs and alcohol in 1920. FTP, name this colorful and restless man, one of the greatest Italian artists of the 1900\rquote 
s, who blended the influence of black African sculpture with simple classical styles to create such works as }{\i Gypsy Woman}{, }{\i Nude on a Divan}{, and }{\i Reclining Nude}{.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Amedeo }{\b\ul Modigliani}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 
\par 8. Actually made up of many groups, including the Fox, Andreanof, Near, and Se
michi, this chain of volcanic islands strecthes 1200 miles west of the Alaskan coast. During World War II, three of the westernmost islands were occupied by the Japanese. FTP, name these islands, the largest of which is Unalaska.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Aleutian}{ islands}{\b\ul 
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0\fs22 
9. On February 4, 1974, she disappeared from her Berkeley, California apartment.  Soon, the Symbionese Liberation Army took credit for her kidnapping and requested that her father Randolph donate millions to the poor.  For ten points, name this heiress wh
o was captured following a 1975 San Francisco bank robbery but was granted executive clemency.  
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\f0\fs22\ul P}{\f0\fs22 atricia \ldblquote Patty\rdblquote  }{\b\f0\fs22\ul Hearst}{\f0\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22 {10. He has ruled his nation for over 46 years, but he has been away from home recently, spending time in Rochester, Minnesota. 
This colder climate might not seem like a good place for a man with lymphatic cancer, but the world-renowned Mayo Clinic has drawn him there for a bone marrow transplant and chemotherapy. FTP name this man who recently named his eldest son, Abdallah, as h
is heir to the throne of Jordon.
\par ANSWER:\tab King }{\b\ul Hussein}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {11. It has been said that Napoleon always carried a copy. Originally written as a book of military tactics, contemporary businessmen apply the concepts of this book for corporate strategies. For ten poi
nts, name this famous Chinese book on military tactics, written by Sun-tzu.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: \tab the }{\b\ul Art of War}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {
12. Most people dream of turning a childhood hobby into a grown-up job. On the way to doing this, he earned a B.A., an M.S., and a Ph.D. at Southern Methodist University. While a professor at Bowling Green State University, he instituted the first statist
ical price survey for items he began collecting when he was just seven years old. FTP identify the man whose }{\i Baseball Card Monthly}{ is a trusted price survey for many collectors.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab James }{\b\ul Bequeath}{ III
\par }\pard \sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {13. Ex-ho, Bagel, Ex-ba, Sca, P-S-T, N-C-O, Hin-di, 
and Eco, are all examples of partial names.  Each of these names is generally followed by a number indicating which specific protein they refer to.  FTP, give the general name for these basic tools of molecular biology which cleave DNA at sequence-specifi
c sites.\line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Restriction Enzymes}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {14. She was spawned from Eris, or Strife, and embodies oblivion.  She shares her name with a river in the land of the dead, one which quenches the memory of life from the shades who drink from it.  Latin poets identifi
ed is as one of the five rivers in the underworld. FTP, name this figure from Greek mythology.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Lethe}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 15. John II, the Good; Charles V, the Wise; Charles VIII, the Victorious; Louis XI, the Cruel; and  Charles VIII, the Affable were all kings from 
this royal house.  For ten points, name this French house which also included Francis II, who married Mary, Queen of Scots, that ended with the assassination of Henry III in 1574.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab House of }{\b\ul Valois}{ (prompt on \ldblquote French kings\rdblquote  on early buzz)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {16. This 
economic school of thought believes in the inherent stability of the economy. It sees the velocity or the transfer rate of money as basically constant and that one can stimulate economic growth by increasing the amount of money in circulation. FTP, name t
his economic perspective integral to the argument for supply-side economics that enjoys support from such eminent thinkers like Milton Friedman.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul monetarism}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {17. He grew up in Richmond, Virginia and later received his doctorate in American Studies fr
om Yale University.  Fitting, because he soon turned to writing full-time and produced fiction and pseudo-journalistic works about the American Experience.  For ten points, name this writer, whose works }{\i The Painted Word}{, }{\i 
The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test,}{ }{\i The Bonfire of the Vanities}{, }{\i The Right Stuff}{, and }{\i A Man in Full }{have all reached the best seller list.
\par ANSWER:\tab Thomas "Tom" }{\b\ul Wolfe}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\sb360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0\fs22 18. He was born in the Netherlands, and he worked as a physicist as well as a maker of scientific instruments. Although he is th
e inventor of two very useful inventions, the alcohol thermometer in 1709 and mercury thermometer in 1714, he did not become famous because of them. For ten points, name this man, who gives his name to an obsolete temperature scale that only Americans are
 stupid enough still to use.  \line ANSWER:\tab  Daniel Gabriel }{\b\f0\fs22\ulw Fahrenheit}{\f0\fs22  
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs22 
19. He began his NHL career with number 27, but that was changed to 4 shortly thereafter. He was the first player to hire a lawyer to negotiate a contract, and he promptly won the Calder an
d Norris Trophies in his rookie season. He hung on to the later trophy for the next eight years. FTP name this man who finished his career in 1979 with the Chicago Blackhawks, although he spent his greatest years with the Boston Bruins.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Robert (Bobby) Gordon }{\b\ul Orr}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {20. His mentor, Guido Cavalcanti aided him with his first major work, }{\i Vita Nuova}{, or }{\i New Life}{
, in the late 13th century.  He served as a Florentine city magistrate as a member of the White faction, but was banished from the city when the Black faction seized control.  For ten points, name this man who while in exile wrote the political treatise }
{\i Monarchia}{, the poetic compendium }{\i Convivio}{, and the 1308 masterpiece }{\i The Divine Comedy}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Dante}{ Alighieri
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {21. Like Martin Luther, he accepted t
he supreme authority of the Scriptures, but applied it more rigorously and comprehensively to all doctrines and practices. He was the only major reformer of the 16th century whose movement did not become a church. FTP, name this man, a big player in the S
wiss Protestant Reformation, whose influence were most significant in the city of Zurich, where a statue of him still stands today. 
\par ANSWER:\tab Huldrych (Ulrich) }{\b\ul Zwingli}{
\par }\pard \sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {22. He was a proponent of spontaneous generation, and wrote instructions for making a mous
e generator, which effectively consisted of putting a box with some grain and sweaty rags in your basement.  He also coined the term \ldblquote gas,\rdblquote 
 and discovered carbon dioxide.  FTP, name this Belgian chemist, noted for his experiment showing that most of the weight of a tree comes from the air.\line ANSWER:\tab   Jan Baptista van }{\b\ulw Helmont}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {23. His father, a barber-surgeon, wandered throughout the country looking for work.  He was educated by Jesuits in Seville, but soon became a soldier and was wounded at Lepanto and imp
risoned by the Turks in 1575, but rescued by the Trinitarian friars five years later. For ten points, name this man who upon returning home wrote Galatea and in 1605 created his most famous work about the man from La Mancha, Don Quixote.
\par ANSWER:\tab Miguel de }{\b\ul Cervantes}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright { 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page }{\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 4: BONI}{\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 1. Name the NFL quarterback, 30-20-10.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 30:\tab He was drafted third overall in the 1995 NFL draft.
\par 20:\tab He finished third in the Heisman Trophy race as a senior at Alcorn State.
\par 10:\tab He is the current Tennessee Oilers quarterback, who started every game last season for the team.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Steve }{\b\ul McNair}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 2. Identify these Portuguese explorers, FTPE.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab In 1488, he led the first European expedition to round the Cape of Good Hope, opening the sea route to Asia via the Atlantic and Indian oceans.  
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Bartolomeu }{\b\ul Dias}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab His three voyages to India opened 
up the sea route from western Europe to the East by way of the Cape of Good Hope.   Later, King John III nominated him as the Portuguese viceroy in India.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Vasco }{\b\ul da Gama}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab On April 22, 1500, he sighted the land that he named Island of the True Cros
s.  Eventually, the country took its modern name, Brazil, from a kind of dyewood, pau-brasil, that is found there.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER: \tab Pedro \'c1lvares }{\b\ul Cabral
\par }{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {3. For the stated number of points, name the cities that Bjork might visit in her European tour to annoy quiet townsfolk.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 5:\tab It is the capital of Hungary, once known as the \ldblquote Queen of the Danube.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Budapest}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22\cgrid0 10:}{\fs22 \tab }{\fs22\cgrid0 A city in which the famous supermodel, Claudia Schiffer, was "discovered," it is the capital of North Rhine}{\fs22 
 Westphalia, with its chief industries as iron and steel.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Dusseldorf}{\tab   
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 15:\tab A French city known for its textiles and gastronomy, and capital of the Rhone department. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Lyon}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 4. Given a character, identify the novel in which he or she appears. You\rquote ll receive ten points per answer
\par a.\tab Henry Fleming\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\i\fs22 The }{\b\i\fs22\ul Red Badge of Courage}{\fs22\ul 
\par }{\fs22 b.\tab Meursault\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\fs22\ul The Stranger}{\fs22  (}{\b\i\fs22\ul L'Etranger}{\fs22 , }{\b\i\fs22\ul The Outsider}{\fs22 , etc.)
\par c.\tab Mr. Jaggers\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\fs22\ul Great Expectations}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 5. FTPE, identify the Freudian term from his subsystem of personality.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab This is the most 
primitive portion of the personality, containing all of the basic biological urges: to eat, drink, eliminate, be comfortably warm, and most of all, to gain sexual pleasure.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul id
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab This is derived from the id and tries to satisfy the id, that is to gain pleasure, but it does so pragmatically, in accordance with the real world.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul ego}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Along with the id, this is another master of the ego that acts as a kind of judge that decides wether the ego has been "good" or "bad."
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul superego
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 6. Given the Transcendentalist writing excerpt, name the author }{\fs22\ul or}{\fs22  the work for 10 points:
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab All day thy wings have fanned, / At that far height, the cold thin atmosphere, / Yet stoop not, weary, to the welcome land, / Though the dark night is near.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab William Cullen }{\b\ul Bryant}{ or \ldblquote }{\b\ul To a Waterfowl}{\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab 
HENCEFORTH, please God, forever I forego / The yoke of men's opinions. I will be / Light-hearted as a bird, and live with God. / I find him in the bottom of my heart, / I hear continually his voice therein.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 ANSWER:\tab Ralph Waldo }{\b\f0\ul Emerson}{\f0  or \ldblquote }{\b\f0\ul Self-Reliance}{\f0 \rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Yet courage! comrades, -- though no more we hear / Each other's voices, lost within this cloud / That time and chance about our way have cast.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Amos Bronson }{\b\ul Alcott}{ or \ldblquote }{\b\ul A Poet\rquote s Countersign}{\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 7. Answer these questions about the English Civil War, FTPE.
\par a.\tab This session of the English Parliament was summoned in November 1640 by King Charles I.  In December 1648, Colonel Thomas Pride expelled all but about 60 members of this Parliament in the event known as \ldblquote Pride\rquote s Purge.\rdblquote 

\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab The }{\b\ul Long }{Parliament
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b. \tab 
This highly disciplined and professionally led army, formed in February 1645, won the English Civil War for Parliament. Commanded by Sir Thomas Fairfax, it defeated King Charles I and Prince Rupert at the Battle of Naseby.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul New Model Army
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab 
This English soldier and statesman was a devout Calvinist who helped bring about the overthrow of the Stuart monarchy.  He served as lord protector of the republican Commonwealth of England, Scotland, and Ireland from 1653 to his death in 1658.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Oliver }{\b\ul Cromwell}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 
8. To work at a grocery store, it is now no longer necessary to possess even rudimentary intelligence. Thanks to those nifty bar codes, they just have to find the black stripes and run them across the laser.  Of course, it is no}{\fs22\cf1 
 easy task to make these things work. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\cf1 a.\tab Every item must be assigned a UPC. For five points, for what does UPC stand? 
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul\cf1 universal product code}{\cf1 
\par b.\tab The first six digits of the UPC number are a manufacturer identification. They must be applied for and paid for through a central organization known as UCC. For ten points, expand the acronym UCC.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul\cf1 Universal Code Council
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab The price is then assigned by the POS machine. For five points, what does POS stand for? Hint: the P is not for \ldblquote piece.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul\cf1 point of sale}{\cf1 
\par }{d.\tab The final digit of the number serves a special function. For ten points, what is this digit called? 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul\cf1 check digit}{\b\ul 
\par }{
\par 9. Socrates admonished us to know ourselves.  Let\rquote s see how well you do.
\par a.  FFP each, what are the three parts of the small intestine?
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Duodenum}{ }{\b\ulw Jejunum}{ }{\b\ulw  Ileum}{.
\par b.  We know that cilia are for paramecium, but we have ciliary muscles.  FTP, with what organ are these muscles associated?
\par ANSWER:\tab  the }{\b\ulw Eye}{
\par c. FFP, which of the following is a real bone?  [moderator, read this slowly and distinctly] Fibia, Scavicle, Clapula, tibia.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Tibia }{ (there are the fibula, the scapula, and the clavicle)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 10. How much do you know about Russian authors? I'm not goi
ng to ask you about their works, but what their father's first name was for 15 points each. This might sound absurd, but it is not too difficult. Hint: Russians' "middle names" are derived from the name of their father. For example, if there was a man nam
ed Peter Ivanovich Koparsky, his father's name would be Ivan. 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab  Leo Tolstoy\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Nikolai}{\fs22 , or English equivalent
\par b.\tab Aleksandr Pushkin\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Sergei}{\fs22 , or English equivalent
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 11. Don\rquote t we all }{\fs22\ul love}{\fs22  }{\i\fs22 Dawson\rquote s Creek}{\fs22 ?  I\rquote ll give you a recent movie or two, a
nd you tell me the name of the character whose actor or actress was in that movie.  For example, if I said }{\i\fs22 Varsity Blues}{\fs22 , you\rquote 
d say Dawson Leary. You get 10 points for the full name, or 5 points if you can only give me the first name. 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel1\adjustright \i\f6\cgrid {\i0\f0\fs22 a.\tab }{\f0\fs22 H20
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Jen}{nifer }{\b\ul Lindley}{ (actress is Michelle Williams)
\par }\pard\plain \s2\keepn\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\outlinelevel1\adjustright \i\f6\cgrid {\i0\f0\fs22 b.\tab }{\f0\fs22 Urban Legend 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Pacey Witter}{ (actor is Joshua Jackson)
\par c.\tab }{\i The Ice Storm, Disturbing Behavior}{ 
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Josephine}{ (or }{\b\ul Joey}{) }{\b\ul Potter}{ (actress is Katie Holmes)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 12. Identify the following Cremonese violin makers for the stated number of points.
\par 5:\tab The most famous of all violin makers, he devised the modern form of the violin bridge and set the proportions for the modern violin.  People believed his secret for such beautiful tone was in the varnish.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Antonio }{\b\ul Stradivari}{ or }{\b\ul Stradivarius}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 10:\tab 
This family of violin makers utilized an amber-colored varnish on their violins.  Most remembered for their evolution of a flat, shallow violin, this family's most famous member, Niccolo was the teacher of Antonio Stradivari.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Amati}{ family
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 15:\tab 
This family, whose head also learned the craft from Niccolo Amati, included members Andrea, Pietro, and Giuseppe del Gesu.  They conducted many experiments in tonal production, and many of their violins are characterized by a 
stain or sap mark running parallel to the fingerboard.  The robust tone of their instruments attracted Paganini, whose violin is now on display in Genoa.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Guarneri}{ family or }{\b\ul Guarnerius}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 13. Name the schools of philosophical thought for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab 
Founded by Zeno of Citium, this Greco-Roman philosophy states that one can emulate the grandeur of the calm and order of the universe by learning to accept events with a stern and tranquil mind.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul stoicism}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab 
Hellenistic school philosophy initiated by Pyrrhon of Elis, which states that no man can know anything for certain nor ever be certain that things he perceives with his senses are real and not illusory.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul skepticism}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab The conception that objects of 
sensory perception or of cognition in general are real in their own right and exist independently of their being known or related to mind.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul realism}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {14. Name the Latin American country from the former dictator for the stated number of points.
\par a.\tab For 5, Manuel Noriega
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Panama}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22\cgrid0 b.\tab For 10, Anastasio Somoza Garc\'eda
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Nicaragua}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22\cgrid0 c.\tab For 15, Alfredo Stroessner
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Paraguay}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {15. Hello, I am Opposite Reflex [Woman] Man. I reflexively do the opposite of what so-called \ldblquote normal\rdblquote  people do. For exam
ple, I plant my face on hot stoves and jump in front of moving vehicles. Answer the questions concerning me FTPE.
\par a. To the consternation of my physician, my knee flexes sharply and I kick myself, yielding large bruises, when the tendon is struck. Name the tendon, that when struck in normal people, elicits the normal knee-jerk reflex.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ul Patellar}{ tendon
\par b. The presence of this reflex, in which stroking the foot lead to extension of my big toe and splaying out my other toes gave the doctors a clue that something was seriously wrong with me as a newborn. 
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ul Babinski\rquote s Reflex}{\ul 
\par }{c. My eyesight is deteriorating rapidly as I can\rquote t stop looking at the sun when I\rquote m outside, prompting my parents to put a sack over my head when I go out. Normally, when expo
sed to bright lights, this reflex kicks in and people protect their retinas. I just open my eyes wider.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ul Blink}{ reflex
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 16. 30-20-10, name the author from works:
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 30:\tab }{\i\fs22 Gandhi}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 The Rise and Fall of Adolph Hitler}{\fs22 
\par 20:\tab }{\i\fs22 The Nightmare Years}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Berlin Diary}{\fs22 
\par 10:\tab }{\i\fs22 The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab William Lawrence }{\b\ul Shirer}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {17. Identify these spectrographic techniques from chemistry FTP each.
\par A. J.J. Thomson\rquote s apparatus for measuring the charge-mass ratio of the electron was one type o
f this device, often used to separate isotopes of an element, which uses perpendicular electric and magnetic fields to control the path of a beam of charged particles.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Mass Spectrometer}{ or }{\b\ulw Mass Spectroscopy}{ (prompt on \ldblquote Mass Spec)
\par B. All bonds in organic molecules absorb energy of wavelength slightly greater than visible light, leading to the ability to determine the presence of certain groups by finding the absorption patterns in this region of the electromagnetic spectrum.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Infrared}{ Spectroscopy (acc. \ldblquote IR\rdblquote )
\par C. This technique is based on the facts that atoms in a vapor give off visible light when excited by heat or an electric current, and that the specific wavelengths produced are unique to a substance.  Neon signs are based on this technology.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Emission Spectroscopy}{\cf1  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {18. The compilation of the Five Classics, the }{\i Wu Ching}{
, established the core curriculum for  Confucian learning and the Chinese civil service examination system.  These five books, all associated with Confucius, cover 
a variety of subject matter.  For five points each, and a bonus five for all correct, name the five books which make up the Wu Ching.
\par ANSWERS:\tab }{\b\i\ul Book of Changes}{\b\ul  }{or }{\b\i\ul I Ching}{\b  }{or  }{\b\i\ul Classic of Changes}{_
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\i\ul Book of History}{ or }{\b\i\ul Shu Ching}{ or }{\b\i\ul Classic of History}{
\par }{\b\i\ul Book of Poetry}{ or }{\b\i\ul Shih Ching}{ or }{\b\i\ul Classic of Poetry}{
\par }{\b\i\ul Record of Rites}{ or }{\b\i\ul Li Chih}{ or }{\b\i\ul Collection of Rituals}{ 
\par }{\b\i\ul Spring and Autumn Annals}{ or }{\b\i\ul Chun-Ch'iu}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {(The }{\i Analects}{, or }{\i Lun-yu}{, is not part of the }{\i Wu Ching}{, but part of the }{\i Four Books}{ or }{\i Ssu Shu}{)
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 19. Perhaps you remember the scene in }{\i\fs22 The Untouchables}{\fs22  where the baby carriage falls down the steps? But perhaps you don\rquote 
t know that this scene was taken from the famed Odessa step sequence in the Russian classic film, }{\i\fs22 Battleship Potemkin}{\fs22 . Hopefully, you do know some other things about the film; each question you answer will earn you ten points.
\par }\pard \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 a.\tab Name the director of this film, also responsible for }{\i\fs22 Ivan the Terrible}{\fs22 , who shares his first name with the composer Prokofiev.
\par ANSWER:\tab Sergei }{\b\fs22\ul Eisenstein}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab Name the film editing technique pioneered by Eisenstein in this film.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul montage}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Name the group who attacks the village in Potemkin, opponents of the Communist regime, who aided the Nazis in their invasion of the USSR.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Cossacks}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 20. Name the following famous media personalities who made news this past year.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab For ten points, this former editor of }{\i\fs22 Vanity Fair}{\fs22  resigned as editor of the New Yorker magazine in July 1998.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Tina }{\b\ul Brown}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab For ten points, this popular Boston Globe columnist resigned soon after it was found that he had used jokes from the comedian George Carlin in his columns.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Mike }{\b\ul Barnicle}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab This CNN correspondent who received acclaim for his hard-hitting work in th
e Vietnam War, was criticized for his role in the 1998 CNN story that was rescinded about American use of nerve gas against defectors in Laos in 1970. FTP, name him. You might know him for his recent journalistic work in Iraq.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Peter }{\b\ul Arnett}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 21. Given some French or Frankish kings, name their royal dynasty for fifteeen points each. If you need the dates of the dynasty\rquote s reign, you only get ten points.
\par a.\tab 15:\tab Clovis I, Chilperic I, Chlotar II
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {10:\tab This dynasty lasted from 476 to 750 CE
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Merovingian}{
\par b.\tab 15:\tab Philip II, Louis IX, John I
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {10:\tab This royal house held power from  987 to 1328 CE
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Capetian}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {22. Given the mantissa of a common physical constant, identify the constant FTP.  You will get 5 points if you need the units for the constant and the exponent.
\par a. 10pts: 6.02
\par 5pts: per mole, times 10 to the twenty-third
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Avagadro\rquote s }{ constant or number
\par b. 10pts: 9.78
\par 5pts: meters per second squared, times 10 to the zeroth
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Gravatational Acceleration }{ on/of Earth (acc similar answers, but DNA Universal Gravitational Constant)
\par c. 10pts: 8.31
\par 5pts: joules per mole Kelvin, times 10 to the zeroth
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab  Universal }{\b\ulw Gas }{ constant
\par \page 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {23. For ten points, name the highest rated show in each decade as calculated by the Neilsons ratings system. If the second highest rated show is named, five points will be awarded.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab 1960s\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\fs22\ul Bonanza}{\fs22  (10) or  The }{\b\i\fs22\ul Red Skelton Show}{\fs22  (5)
\par b.\tab 1970s\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\fs22\ul All in the Family}{\fs22  (10) or }{\b\i\fs22\ul M*A*S*H*}{\fs22  (5)
\par c.\tab 1980s\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\fs22\ul 60 Minutes}{\fs22  (10) or }{\b\i\fs22\ul Dallas}{\fs22  (5)
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }}