{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f379\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f380\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f382\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f383\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f384\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f391\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f392\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}
{\f394\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f395\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f396\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 
\sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{
\s20\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Body Text 2;}{\s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext21 Bonus First Line;}{\s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext22 
Bonus Part;}{\s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext23 Plain Text;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1377289\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc3\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1}{\list\listtemplateid-1968261350\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers
\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1195264912}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1195264912\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls2}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}
{\operator The Weiner Family}{\creatim\yr1999\mo2\dy2\hr23\min42}{\revtim\yr2000\mo6\dy30\hr17\min42}{\printim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr17\min13}{\version11}{\edmins76}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords3128}{\nofchars17830}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws21896}
{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale90\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright 
\fs22 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round X.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 3}}}{ of 7
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }}{\headerf \pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }}{\footerf \pard\plain \s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND OF 16: TOSSUPS}{
\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VIII. }{\fs24 Round 12.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24  PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\fs24\lang1024 8}}}{\fs24  of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs19\fs24  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\cs19\fs24\lang1024 1}}}{\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {1. Rebelling against British policies and seeking greener pastures, over 12,000 Afrikaners emigrated from Cape Colony, South Africa in this 1835 to mid-1840s event.  With the spread of 
white settlement north of the Limpopo and the outflanking of peoples slowing their expansion, it is a significant turning point in Afrikaners' history. FTP, name this event, the origin of that people's nationhood.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Great Trek}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {2. Developed by Philip
s and Sony in 1977 and first released to consumers in 1982, their dynamic range of up to 90 decibels gave them better sound than even the best phonograph recordings. Its name comes from the fact that their 12cm. diameter was considerably smaller than the 
30cm width of LP\rquote s. FTP, what music storage medium has supplanted cassette tapes as the main storage device for personal audio?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul compact disc}{ (prompt for expansion on "CD"; also accept }{\b\ul digital audio disc}{)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {3. Boomer Esiason\rquote s son Gunnar is one of rou
ghly 30,000 Americans afflicted with this disease.  The gene responsible, identified in 1989, produces a faulty protein that inhibits normal transfer of chloride ions across cell membranes. Symptoms include inability to digest food normally, frequent lung
 infections, asthma and the abnormally salty sweat used as the test for the disease. FTP, name this most common fatal genetic disorder in the U.S.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Cystic Fibrosis}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {4. One of the few metals that can be liquid at room temperature, it is silvery-white
 with a blue tinge. This group IIIA element can be painted on metal to form mirrors or mixed with other elements to form superconductors. FTP, identify this element abbreviated Ga.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Gallium}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 5. Born in 1863, this painter was an expressionist pionee
r. In 1892, his Berlin show closed because the exhibition shocked the authorities. Perhaps his vivid reflections on childhood traumas like the death of both his mother and sister from tuberculosis offended his sensitive audience. FTP, name this Norwegian 
painter of }{\i The Scream}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab Edvard }{\b\ul Munch}{ 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {6. This development of this civilization, the earliest known urban culture on the South Asian subcontinent, resembled that of Mesopotamia. Artifacts from that era include unique steatite seals of various beasts 
and humanoid terra-cotta figures. FTP, name this civilization, centered in modern-day Pakistan, whose attack by possibly Aryan raiders sparked its decline.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Indus}{ Valley Civilization or }{\b\ul Harappan}{ Civilization
\par 
\par 7. This quarterback still holds the record for consecutive games with a touchdown pass, at 47 in a row, throwing to receivers like Johnny Orr and Tom Matte.  His crowning achievement was leading the overtime drive which beat the Giants in the 1958 NFL cha
mpionship.  FTP, name this legendary Colts quarterback.
\par ANSWER:\tab Johnny }{\b\ul Unitas}{
\par \page 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {8. He captured and killed a divine bull before he ascended to heaven. From the bull\rquote s blood came forth all the plants and animals beneficial to humanity. His males-only cult spr
ead beyond Persia and was popular among Roman soldiers around 100 AD. FTP, name this Persian god who was known in Rome as }{\i Deus sol invictus}{, or the unconquered sun, and counted the Roman emperor Commodus among his adherents.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Mithras}{ (accept }{\b\ul Mithra}{)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
9. Started with a $10,000 inheritance, this record label owes its success to clever marketing and production. CD sleeves always have other upcoming releases plastered all over them, and most songs feature an up-and-coming artist with an already establish
ed one. Mystikal, Mia X, Silkk the Shocker, and even good old Snoop Dogg are now soldiers for this company. FTP, name Master P\rquote s record label.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul No Limit}{ Records}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {10. The heart of the plot of this book centers around a hypothetical scenario: how woul
d someone behave if he had the legendary ring of Gyges? Such a person would be invisible, and the characters question whether or not such a person would act justly. Thus the author developed what is known as his theory of forms. FTP identify this set of t
en books attributed to Plato that includes the \ldblquote the allegory of the cave.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Republic}{ or }{\b\i\ul Politeia}{
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {11. An interracial couple, Richard and Mildred married in 1958. They moved to their native Virginia and in 1959 they were convicted of violating sta
te law. They brought a suit in 1963 challenging the constitutionality of that law, and in 1967 the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously agreed and declared anti-miscegenation laws unjust and undue. FTP, give the name of Richard and Mildred\rquote s suit.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Loving v. Virginia}{ (accept just }{\b\ul Loving}{ on the early buzz)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {12. This New York native has spent his career moving back and forth between politics, television, journalism and public relations. He worked in three failed presidential campaigns before working as the c
hief spokesman for the Clinton-Gore campaign in 1996.  FTP name this man who served as deputy press secretary for the President and took over this past October as press secretary for the White House.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Joe }{\b\ul Lockhart}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {13. It rises 3,161 feet above one 
of the oldest rainforests on earth. It is called Gunung Buda by the inhabitants of the surrounding Sarawak forest on the island of Borneo. FTP, name this Indonesian mountain threatened by logging and mining which has a name similar to a mountain range tha
t stretches from northern New Hampshire to western Maine.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul White}{ Mountain
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {14. Virgil tells Dante in Canto 18 of }{\i Purgatorio}{ that this is the source for both human good and error. Moving beyond the standard definition, Virgil even attributes to it exp
lanations for physical phenomena. The Greeks were smart enough to divide this feeling into categories like agape and eros. According to the Beatles, it\rquote s all that you need. FTP, name this profound human force.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul love}{ (giggle)
\par 
\par 15. German General Erich Ludendorff planned to attack this site in hopes of dividing the French army in two in 1918.  However, Ludendorff met resistance from Allied forces after reaching it. By July 18, the offensive was called off and the trapped Germans
 began to withdraw. FTP, name this site of two World War I battles, including the last major German offensive of that war.
\par ANSWER:\tab The }{\b\ul Marne}{ River
\par \page 
\par 16. These are caused by procession of the moon in its orbit, not by the shadow of the Earth as is commonly misconceived. They are found on many wall calendars and are commonly published in the newspaper. Their effects on humanity are minimal, though they 
can create opportune times for military strikes and jailbreaks. FTP, give the term that refers to the cyclic appearance of various shapes of the moon.\line ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ulw Phase}{s of the Moon
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {17. He was born in Buenos Aires, but on the eve of World War One, his family m
oved to Geneva.  While in Europe, he came under the influence of the Ultraist movement which was rebelling against the literary traditions of the day.  He later wrote such works as }{\i El hacedor}{, }{\i El libro de arena}{, and }{\i Ficciones}{
.  For ten points, name this Argentinian, author of such dream-like works as }{\i Otras Inquisiciones}{.  
\par ANSWER:\tab Jorge Luis }{\b\ul Borges}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {18. It was pulled from high school English classes in Mingus, Arizona because of \ldblquote profane language, poor treatment of the retarded, and a violent ending.\rdblquote   This
 novel, however, was intended by Steinbeck to be one of  \ldblquote serenity and depth.\rdblquote   For ten points, name this book which centers around the drifters George and Lenny, written by John Steinbeck.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Of Mice and Men}{
\par 
\par 19. Born near Seville, Spain, he took an 
active part in campaigns during the reigns of Titus and Domitian.  During his reign, the Appian Way was restored, and the empire reached its largest dimensions with his additions of Armenia, Mesopotamia, and Dacia. FTP, name this Roman emperor who became 
Nerva\rquote s colleague and successor in 97, and was succeeded in 117 by Hadrian.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Trajan}{ (accept Marcus Ulpius Trajanus)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {20. She was born in Topeka, Kansas and graduated from Wilson Junior College in 1936. Her work first appeared in the }{\i Chicago Defender}{. She published her first collection or works, }{\i A Street in Bronzeville}{
, in 1945 and in 1949 completed her masterwork, the Pulitzer Prize winning }{\i Annie Allen}{. For ten points, name this writer who followed Carl Sandburg as poet laureate of Illinois.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Elizabeth Gwendolyn }{\b\ul Brooks}{
\par 
\par 21. At age 17, he saw a production of Verdi's "Aida" and decided to specialize in opera in order to become a great composer like five of his direct male ancestors. He applied the then new concept of }{\i verismo}{ to the operas, using p
easants and conmen who sang dialogues as the main characters instead of the same old cast of poem singing gods and princes. FTP, name this composer of }{\i La Boh\'e8me}{ and }{\i Madame Butterfly}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab Giacomo }{\b\ul Puccini}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {22. After Shockley, Bardeen and Brattain invente
d it in 1948, one of its first uses was to make portable radios. It consists of two diodes connected back-to-back, and serves to block the flow of electrical current in one direction while permitting it in the other direction.\~
 FTP, identify this versatile electrical component, whose name is derived from the words \ldblquote transfer\rdblquote  and \ldblquote resistor.\rdblquote 
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Transistor}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {23. Though reference to them in Greek mythology exists, they came into wide-spread use in the 12th Century in Europe with the beginning of the Crusa
des.  They were either partial or full, with two openings for necessary functions.  Particularly devout virgins were known to lock themselves in and throw away the key.  FTP, name this device featured in }{\i Robin Hood: Men In Tights}{.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul chastity belt}{
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 12: BONI}{\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {1. Answer these questions about Taco Bell\rquote s series of Chihuahua commercials, for the stated number of points.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 a.\tab}}\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright \fs22 {For ten, spell chihuahua
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl12\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\ilvl12\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul C-H-I-H-U-A-H-U-A}{
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 b.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {For ten, translate \ldblquote 
Yo Quiero Taco Bell\rdblquote  into English.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl12\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\ilvl12\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul I want Taco Bell}{ 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 c.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {
For five points each, name the two Chihuahuas who starred in the original \ldblquote Yo Quiero Taco Bell\rdblquote  commercial.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Dinky}{ and }{\b\ul Gidget}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0\fs22 2. You\rquote re at a seedy chemistry bar when a swarthy periodic table approaches and starts hitting on you.  Several beers and a few hours later, you\rquote ve learned }{
\b\f0\fs22\ulw way}{\f0\fs22  too much about this handy reference device.
\par a. Disturbingly, its atomic radii in a given period aren\rquote t the same size. Looking at it, are the atomic radii on the right or left larger FTP?
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\f0\fs22\ulw Left}{\f0\fs22 
\par b. In the frantic scramble before bonding, you found it was easier to strip an electron from some of its atoms than others.  FTP, were these easily ionizable atoms more towards the top or the bottom? 
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\f0\fs22\ulw Bottom}{\f0\fs22 
\par c. To your suprise and delight, you found that it wasn\rquote t exagerating about the length of its lanthanide series.  FTP within 1, or FFP within 2, how many elements were in this impressive series, exculding lanthanide itself?
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab  10 points: }{\b\fs22\ul 15-13}{\fs22 , 5 points: }{\b\fs22\ul 12-16}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {3. For 15 points each, identify the term pertaining to stages of sculptural casting.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab This is the hollow form or mold into which the liquefied casting material is poured.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul negative}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab This is the reproduction that comes from filling the mold with the chosen substance and letting the material harden.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul positive}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 4. Identify the following Roman heroes from clues for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab This trio of brothers held a bridge to protect Rome from Lars Porsenna.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab the }{\b\ul Horatii}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab The son of Aeneas; he is credited with founding the city of Alba Longa in Italy.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Ascanius}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Iulus
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab This man was the king ruling Italy until Aeneus came to town.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Latinus}{
\par \page }{\b -VISUAL BONUS-
\par }{5. You are looking at several individuals sporting unusually amusing headgear. Please identify them FTPE:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 a.\tab As the last Emperor of Austria, his 86-year life spanned several eras and ended in the dissolution of his monarchy and nation. His son\rquote s death in Sarajevo provoked WWI. 

\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\f0\ul Franz Josef I}{\f0  or }{\b\f0\ul Francis Joseph I}{\f0 
\par b.\tab A dedicated separatist, his Black Star Line transported African-Americans back to Africa to live, and his Universal Negro Improvement Association sought to foster black independence. Some hat.
\par ANSWER:\tab Marcus Mosiah }{\b\f0\ul Garvey}{\f0 , Jr.
\par c.\tab Born with deformed feet, this actress required special footgear to perform her dance numbers. Her \ldblquote taste\rdblquote  in headgear is best captured in her 1943 song \ldblquote The Lady in the Tutti Fruity Hat.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Carmen }{\b\ul Miranda}{
\par 
\par 6. How much do you know about fashion? I really don\rquote t care, actually, but I\rquote m going to ask questions about them anyway. Answer these questions for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab This designer became famous after he designed all the wardrobe for the movie version of \ldblquote The Great Gatsby.\rdblquote  Playing upon the consumers\rquote 
 sense of elegance and functionality, he introduced such lines as, Sport, Polo, and Chaps. His real name is Lipschultz.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Ralph }{\b\ul Lauren}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab He first became mainstream with his line of inexpensive Jeans in the 80\rquote s, hiring Brooke Shields as an exclusive model. Nowadays, he\rquote 
s hired model Kate Moss to do his shows, advertise his jeans, and market his line of perfumes, which includes \ldblquote Contradiction.\rdblquote  
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Calvin }{\b\ul Klein}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Although he is not considered \ldblquote Haute couture,\rdblquote  He is well known to the consumer market for his line of clothing, Guess?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Georges }{\b\ul Marciano}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 7. FTPE, identify these notable Americans who are buried in New Haven\rquote s Grove Street Cemetery, just a block away from this building.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {a.\tab In 1839, he accidentally dropped some India rubber mixed with sulfur on a hot stove, and so discovered the vulcanization of rubber.
\par ANSWER: \tab Charles }{\b\ul Goodyear}{\b 
\par }{b. \tab Graduating from Yale in 1792, this innovative American inventor is probably best known for developing the concepts of mass production and interchangeable parts and inventing the cotton gin. 
\par ANSWER:\tab Eli }{\b\ul Whitney}{
\par c.\tab He is known for a plan of representation of large and s
mall states that prevented a deadlock at the Constitutional Convention of 1787. His plan, which became the Connecticut or Great Compromise, provided for bicameral legislation using a dual system of representation.
\par ANSWER:\tab Roger }{\b\ul Sherman}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 8. Five for one, fifteen for two, and thirty for all three, name the first 3 witnesses called to give closed-door depositions in the Clinton Senate trial.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Monica }{\b\ul Lewinsky}{, Vernon }{\b\ul Jordan}{, and Sidney }{\b\ul Blumenthal}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 9. Given some lines of poetry, identify the poet for 10 points.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0\fs22 a.\tab By the stream & o'er the mead;
\par \tab Gave thee clothing of delight, 
\par \tab Softest clothing wooly bright;
\par ANSWER:\tab William }{\b\f0\fs22\ul Blake}{\f0\fs22  (from "The Lamb")
\par b.\tab There was green alligators and long-neck geese.
\par \tab There was humpy bumpy camels and chimpanzees.
\par ANSWER: Shel }{\b\f0\fs22\ul Silverstein}{\f0\fs22  (from "The Unicorn")
\par c.\tab Then be not coy, but use your time;
\par \tab And while ye may, go marry:
\par \tab For having lost but once your prime,
\par \tab You may forever tarry.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER: Robert }{\b\ul Herrick}{ (from "To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time")
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par 10. Given the narcissistic ruler, name his court artist for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22\cgrid0 5pts:\tab Philip II of Spain \tab \tab 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul El Greco}{ or }{\b\ul Dom\'e9nikos Theotok\'f3poulos
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22\cgrid0 10pts:\tab Ludovico Sforza \tab \tab 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Leonardo }{\b\ul da Vinci}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22\cgrid0 15pts:\tab Alexander the Great \tab 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Lysippus}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 11. Name the following new NFL head coaches for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 5:\tab For five points, this coach was fired by the Philadelphia Eagles and hired by the Green Bay Packers.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Ray }{\b\ul Rhodes}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 10:\tab For ten points, This former Green Bay Packers quarterbacks coach was hired by the Philadelphia Eagles.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Andy }{\b\ul Reid}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 15:\tab For fifteen points, this former Oregon State coach was hired as the new coach for the San Diego Chargers.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Mike }{\b\ul Riley}{
\par 
\par 12. Identify the color of the ribbon associated with the following medical conditions FTP each.
\par a. AIDS
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Red}{
\par b. Breast cancer
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Pink}{
\par c. Organ transplants
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Green}{ (acc. \ldblquote dark green\rdblquote  and variants)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 13. FTPE, answer these questions about government policies in the former Soviet Union.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab This \ldblquote restructuring\rdblquote 
 social policy, focusing on economic reform, encouraged self-financing, the establishment of cooperatives as businesses, and land leases for family farming. This term was also the subtitle of a Broadway play about AIDS.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul perestroika}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab Aleksandr Yakovlev, the eventual secretary for propoganda and media overseer, was assiogned the task of expanding this policiy of general \ldblquote openness,
\rdblquote  the political counterpart to perestroika.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul glastnost}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab 
Both of these reforms were set up by this Soviet leader, who encouraged freer press and speech and made one of the first attempts at democratization of Soviet government.  
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Mikhail }{\b\ul Gorbachev}{ 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 14. Given an author's name, identify his home nation.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab Octavio Paz\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Mexico}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab Oscar Hijuelos\tab \tab ANSWER: \tab }{\b\fs22\ul United States}{\fs22  (or equivalent)
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {c.    Jorge Luis Borges\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Argentina}{
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 15. Forget the Spice Girls.  FTPE, name these real exemplaries of international \ldblquote girl power.\rdblquote  
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab She was the longest-serving British prime minister since 1827.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Margaret Hilda }{\b\ul Thatcher}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab Born to a lower-middle class family, she left show business in the mid-1950\rquote s to become her husband\rquote 
s personal secretary and, eventually, his running mate in Argentina\rquote s 1973 presidential election. She became president herself upon his death.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Isabel Peron}{ 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab This Queen of Bohemia and Hungary, who helped her husband Francis gain become Holy Roman Emperor in 1745, earned her reputation for her diplomatic
 skill after her successful appeal to the Hungarian Estates for a great levy of troops.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Maria Theresa}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 16. For the stated number of points, identify the authors of the following books of politcal philosophy.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab For 5, }{\i\fs22 Utopia}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Thomas }{\b\ul More}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab For 10, }{\i\fs22 On Liberty}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab John Stuart }{\b\ul Mill}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {c.\tab For 15, }{\i An Essay on the History of Civil Society}{
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Adam }{\b\ul Ferguson}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {17. Given a brief description of a Supreme Court case, identify it for ten points each.
\par a.\tab This 1896 case involved railroads and a defendant who was one-sixteenth black.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Plessy v. Ferguson}{
\par b.\tab This 1961 case made the \ldblquote exclusionary rule\rdblquote  of evidence applicable to all United States courts. This protected defendants against violations of their rights against unreasonable search and seizures.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Mapp v. Ohio
\par }{c.\tab In this 1986 case, the Court found that there was no constitutional protection for acts of sodomy, and that states could outlaw those practices.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Bowers v. Hardwick}{
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 18. You think you throw wild parties? Answer these questions on Trimalchio, the original party animal.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab Name the first century AD Roman comedic playwright who created the character of Trimalcho, and the play in which we witness his \ldblquote feast.\rdblquote 
 You get ten points for the writer, and another ten for the play.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab playwright: Gaius }{\b\ul Petronius}{ Arbiter or Titus }{\b\ul Petronius}{ Niger; play: }{\b\i\ul Satyricon}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab For another ten points, Trimalchio served as the prototype for what main character of a F. Scott Fitzgerald novel?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Jay }{\b\ul Gatsby}{ (prompt for his name on \ldblquote The Great Gatsby\rdblquote )
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 19. Yale quiz bowl can never get the hang of those initials. Can you? For the stated number of points, given the initial, give the name it stands for.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab For 5, F. Scott Fitzgerald\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Francis}{\fs22 \~[not \ldblquote Frank\rdblquote ]
\par b.\tab For 10, T.S. Eliot\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Thomas Stearns}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {c.   For 15, W. H. Auden\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Wystan Hugh}{
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\page 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {20. Perform the following basic integrations FTP each.
\par a. The integral of dee-u over u
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw natural log of the absolute value of u plus C}{ (prompt if they omit the absolute value or C, acc variants in the answer provided that it is still correct ex. they say \ldblquote a constant\rdblquote  instead of C)
\par b. The integral of e to the u times dee-u
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw e to the u plus C}{  (prompt if they omit C, acc variants in the answer provided that it is still correct ex. they say \ldblquote a constant\rdblquote  instead of C)
\par c. The integral of secant squared u times dee-u
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw tangent u plus C}{ (prompt if they omit C, acc variants in the answer provided that it is still correct ex. they say \ldblquote a constant\rdblquote  instead of C, or they say \ldblquote tan\rdblquote  instead of \ldblquote tangent
\rdblquote )}{\b\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 21. FTPE, name the military scapegoats of the following American war battles.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab This man, dead last in his class at West Point, helped hasten General Lee\rquote s Civil War surrender and obliterated Black Kettle\rquote 
s Cheyenne village on the Washita River, but in 1876 led his troops to their deaths in one of American history\rquote s most controversial battles.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab George Armstrong }{\b\ul Custer}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab Despite his skillful reorganization of Union troops in the Civil War, this \ldblquote Young Napoleon of the West\rdblquote 
 was bombarded with criticism for not pressing his advantage over the Confederates.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab George }{\b\ul McClellan}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Despite his loyal involvement in American causes as a soldie
r, diplomat, and U.S. secretary of war, this man shared the blame with Pres. Madison for failing to provide troops and equipment to Americans during the British siege of Washington in the War of 1812.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab John }{\b\ul Armstrong}{
\par 
\par 22.   For 5 points each plus 5 for all correct, name the 5 U.S. State capitals with the smallest populations.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Montpelier}{ (8,042), }{\b\ul Juneau}{ (29,756), }{\b\ul Augusta}{ (20,441), }{\b\ul Helena}{ (27,982) }{\b\ul Pierre}{ (13,442)
\par 
\par 23. Answer the questions about the definition of fundamental SI units.
\par a. A second is the time it takes for about 9 billion changes between the hyperfine levels of this atom.  FTP each identify the element with mass number 133 for this isotope.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Cesium}{ 
\par b. To define this unit, the General Conference on Weights and Measures uses two parallel theoretical wires of infinite length and negligible cross-section one meter apart.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Ampere}{ (prompt on \ldblquote current\rdblquote  noting that the unit, not the quantity measured, is necessary).
\par c. The definition of this unit involves a black body one six hundred thousandth of a square meter in area.  It measures luminous intensity.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Candela}{\fs24 
\par }}