{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}
{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}{\*\cs19 
\additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s20\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext20 Body Text 2;}{\s21\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext21 Plain Text;}{\s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext22 
Bonus Part;}{\s23\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext23 Bonus First Line;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid67698709\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc3\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid869297990}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid869297990\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator Ramin Fatehi}
{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy5\hr23\min37}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy5\hr23\min37}{\printim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr17\min10}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords3732}{\nofchars21277}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws26129}{\vern113}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale83 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i 
Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round X.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 3}}}{ of 7
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 7: TOSSUPS}{\fs24 

\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VIII. }{\fs24 Round 7.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24  PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\fs24\lang1024 2}}}{\fs24  of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs19\fs24  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\cs19\fs24\lang1024 1}}}{\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1999 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {1. "Area Stoners mistakenly Hold Massive Kemp Rally." "Retro-Crazed German Youths Invade Poland." "Ask a Gut-Shot Policeman." "ACLU Defends Nazis' Right to Burn Down ACLU Headquarters," a
nd editorials by T. Herman Zwiebel are all fixtures of, FTP, this paper and online magazine, "America's Finest News Source," which hit the stands of Barnes & Nobles nationwide last November.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\i The}{\b\i  }{\b\i\ul Onion}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 2. In Egyptian mythology, he was an architect,
 physician, scribe, and grand vizier of the 3rd dynasty. He lived in the court of the Pharaoh Zoser, and was worshipped as a god of medicine. FTP, name this son of Ptah, creator of the universe, and Sekhmet, goddess of war and pestilence, who built and de
signed the Step Pyramid at Sakkara, oldest extant monument of hewn stone known to the world.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Imhotep}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {3. This playwright was born in 1564, in Canterbury, England, the son of a shoemaker, but it seems that from pretty early on, he had no intention of
 continuing the family business. He entered Corpus Christi College, Cambridge as a scholar in 1580 and probably wrote one of his earliest works, }{\i Tamburlaine the Great}{
, during his studies there. He later went on to a career of government service, writing, and generally sketchy behavior, resulting in his stabbing death in a bar brawl in 1593. FTP, name this Elizabethan playwright, also the author of }{\i Edward II}{
, and everybody's favorite, }{\i The Jew of Malta}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab Christopher }{\b\ul Marlowe}{
\par 
\par 4. Like his father, this mo
narch chose marine biology as his major field, which he studied from American Elizabeth Gray Vining. Unlike his father, he was not an absolute ruler. Taking the throne in 1989, he is the 125th direct descendent in his line and the first to marry a commone
r. FTP, name the son of Nagako and Hirohito, the Emperor of Japan.
\par ANSWER:\tab Tsugu }{\b\ul Akihito}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {5. Gouranga! You are an ordinary citizen who travels around cities in the United States, and you\rquote ve managed to acquire quite a criminal record doing this. Your goal is
 to impress the drug dealers and gang lords in order to get recognition in the criminal world. Armed with weapons ranging from small pistols to rocket launchers, you can kill innocents, steal cars, and dodge the police. FTP identify this video game whose 
title comes from the crime you\rquote re charged with for stealing a car.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Grand Theft Auto}{\i 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {6. This country is the seventh largest country in Asia by area, with its highest mountains contained in the Altai ranges. Its cities include Altay, Darhan, and Dala
ndzadgad. FTP, name this country that was led in the 13th century under the leadership of Temujin, better known as Genghis Khan, with capital at Ulaanbaatar.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Mongolia}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs22 7. This college football team has produced some excellent professional linebacke
rs lately, including Alfred Williams, Kanavis McGhee and Greg Biekert. FTP, name this university, the alma mater of Kordell Stewart and Charles Johnson, whose current coach is Rick Neuheisel and whose former coach Bill McCartney is the head of the Promise
 Keepers, and whose mascot is the buffalo.}{\fs22\cgrid0 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab University of }{\b\ul Colorado}{ 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {8. Judith Guest had an auspicious debut with the publication of this book. With chapters of alternating perspective, it describes the psychological and emotional disintegration of a
 family following the death of a beloved older son in a boating accident. FTP, name this novel, the basis for an Oscar-winning Robert Redford film.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Ordinary People}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {9. One of the few successes coming from the proliferation of communitarian and millenarian groups in 18}{\super th}{ and 19}{\super th}{
 century Europe and America, this sect splintered from a Quaker community in Manchester, England. James Wardley, its founding preacher, absorbed the teachings of the millenial French Prophets, and his community began to evolv
e around 1746, spreading to America in the 19}{\super th}{
 century. The ascetic members were viewed as radical for their communion with the spirits of the dead, and impassioned gyration that would occur at their services. FTP, name this celibate Christian faction also known for their furniture.
\par ANSWER:\tab The }{\b\ul Shakers}{ or The }{\b\ul United Society of Believers}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 10. This Bolshevik met Lenin after fleeing Russia in 1911. He returned in 1917 after the October Revolution, and he became a leading Comintern figure despite his oppositio
n to the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. A rightist, he helped kick Trotsky out of the party in the 1920\rquote s. Stalin engineered his downfall in 1929, and the final end came after the last of the Moscow public trials in 1938. FTP, name him.
\par ANSWER:\tab Nikolay Ivanovich }{\b\ul Bukharin}{
\par }\pard \sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
11. He graduated from Oregon State Agricultural College in 1922. He introduced the ideas of hybrid bonds and the partial ionic character of covalent bonds, as well as a scale for relative electronegativities. Much later, he introduced the idea th
at consuming enormous quantities of vitamin C was a good idea. FTP, name this chemist who won two different Nobel Prizes but lost the race for the double helix.\line ANSWER:\tab  Linus }{\b\ulw Pauling}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {12. He served in five presidential administrations between 1911 and 194
5, not all of them quite as Republican as he was. As Calvin Coolidge's Secretary of State, he abolished the State Department code-breaking service because "Gentlemen don't read each other's mail." Neither did they recognize territorial changes by acts of 
aggression, as the doctrine named for, FTP, this Secretary of war for Taft and FDR stated.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER: Henry Lewis }{\b\ul Stimson}{
\par }\pard \sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {13. Its name implies its structure, which consists of a phenyl (FEEN-ill) or benzene ring attached to an amino group and an acetyl (ah-SEE
T-ill) group. The ring and the acetyl group are prominent components of another compound with the same function, acetylsalicylic (ah-seet-ill-sal-ih-SILL-ic) acid, or aspirin. FTP, name this chemical, the active ingredient of Tylenol.\line ANSWER:\tab  }{
\b\ulw Acetaminophen}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {14. Named after the 19}{\super th}{
 century French economist who penned it, this law postulates that producing goods generates an amount of income equal to the value of goods produced. The production of output automatically provides the income needed to take those
 goods or services off the market. All business owners had to do to attain full employment was increase output. FTP, name this obsolete law disproved by the Great Depression and Keynesian theory.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Say}{\rquote s Law
\par \page 15. This Expressionist who lived from 1890 to 1918 fell at odds with critics and society during his short career. Briefly imprisoned for obscenity in 1912, he made eroticism a primary theme in his paintings. His work at first echoed Klimt\rquote 
s, but he later developed his own jagged, anti-classical style. FTP, name this Austrian painter who painted }{\i Pregnant Woman and Death}{, }{\i Agony}{, and }{\i Johann Harms}{.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Egon }{\b\ul Schiele}{
\par 
\par 16. She was a Pennsylvanian by birth but spent her infancy in Vienna and Paris and her adolescence in Oakland, California. She attend
ed Radcliffe, where she studied with William James. She went to medical school and seemed headed for a normal life when she moved to Paris. For ten points, name this expatriate author, art critic, and friend of Picasso, Matisse and Braque, the author of }
{\i Four Saints in Three Acts}{ and }{\i The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab Gertrude }{\b\ul Stein}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {17. This technology increases the amplitude of high-frequency sound when recorded and then decreases the amplitude at playback to drown out the high-frequency hiss in magnetic audio tapes. It\rquote 
s most primitive form was first demonstrated in 1965 in London, and by 1981 more than 100 million consumer products with a later version had been sold. FTP, give the general name for this technology that is ubiquitous in personal 
cassette tapes and symbolized by a double d.\line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ul Dolby}{ Noise Reduction
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {18. He adapted the classical temple front to the facades of his villas because it had the dignity suitable for an entrance. His treatise }{\i The Four Books of Architecture}{ uses his bu
ildings to exemplify the principles of Roman design. FTP, name this 16th century Italian architect and theorist, who designed San Giorgio Maggiore and Il Redentore in Venice, as well as the Villa Rotunda near Vicenza.
\par ANSWER:\tab Andrea }{\b\ul Palladio}{  (accept Andrea di Pietro della Gondola)
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22 {
19. Influenced by the Bible, Nietzsche, and Blake, his lyrical outpourings are dominated by themes of love, death, nature, and longing for homeland and express his deeply religious and mystic nature. FTP, name this Lebanese-Amer
ican philosophical essayist, novelist, poet, and artist who, in the early 20th century produced such works as }{\i The Broken Wings}{, }{\i A Tear and a Smile}{, }{\i The Madman}{, and }{\i The Prophet}{.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Khalil }{\b\ul Gibran}{ (also accept }{\b\ul Jibran}{ or }{\b\ul Jubran}{)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {20. You can dance it, you
 can pump one, you can do it and miss, and you can use a tire one. Chariots can do it low, and if you use a big one, you can get pretty high. FTP, give the word that can have all these meanings and also refers to a painting by John - Hon-or-ay Fra-goh-nar
 (Jean-Honore Fragonard)\line ANSWER:\tab  a/the }{\b\ulw Swing}{
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {21. Robert Southey, this poet\rquote s partner in an abortive utopian community, forced him to marry a woman he didn\rquote 
t love. He eventually abandoned her, but not before turning to laudanum and hallucinating about Mongols and sailors. FTP, name this Romanticist author of \ldblquote The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.\rdblquote 
\par ANSWER:\tab Samuel Taylor }{\b\ul Coleridge}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {22. After a stint at the Federal Trade Commission, she served as Secretary of Transportation under Reagan and Secretary of Labor under
 Bush, where she was instrumental in creating air bag requirements and a minimum-wage increase. The third tail light on your car bears her name. This January, she announced that she would leave her current position as director of the American Red Cross to
 pursue a presidential run. For ten points, name this political figure with a 60% approval rating, the wife of the 1996 Republican presidential nominee.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Elizabeth }{\b\ul Dole}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 \page 23}{. }{\f0 What were you doing 1603-1867? Perhaps not much, but in Japan, a flux of ba
wdy fiction had arisen from the merchant class during this era. Ihara Saikaku, for instance, wrote about the sensual life of mercantile society in }{\i\f0 Life of an Amorous Man}{\f0 
. FTP, name this peaceful period under the Tokugawa Clan, during which haiku was perfected, the strife of the medieval period died down, national unity increased, and Japan led a life willfully isolated from the rest of the world.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Edo}{ Period
\par 
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 7: BONI}{\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\tx4680\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {1. }{\cgrid0 You probably know
 that the Stanley Cup is awarded to the champion of the National Hockey League each season. Answer the following questions about the cup for ten points each.
\par a.\tab What team currently has the Stanley Cup?
\par }\pard \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright {\cgrid0 ANSWER:\tab Detroit }{\b\ul\cgrid0 Red Wings}{\cgrid0 
\par b.\tab The Stanley Cup is the oldest trophy that North America\rquote s athletes vie for. What was the first year that the cup was awarded?
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul\cgrid0 1893
\par }{\cgrid0 c.\tab The Stanley Cup has the names of every team that have won the championship, as well as most of the names of the championship players. So it\rquote s a big cup. Within 2 pounds, how much does it weigh?
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul\cgrid0 34 to 38}{\cgrid0  pounds (it weighs 36 pounds)
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {2. Answer the following questions about the original Nancy Drew series for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22 {a.\tab Who was the real creator of this amateur super-sleuth?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Edward }{\b\ul Stratemeyer}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 b.\tab What was the pseudonym listed as the author of the series?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Carolyn }{\b\ul Keene}{ 
\par c.\tab For five points each, name Nancy\rquote s two best friends, not including her boyfriend.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul George}{ Fayne, }{\b\ul Bess}{ Marvin
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {3. }{\cgrid0 Given a description, identify the following females from the Old Testament for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab An ancestor of King David, this Moabite woman married a son of a Judean couple living in Moab. Faithful to her new family, she helps support her mother-in-law Naomi even after her ow
n husband\rquote s death. She even moves with Naomi to Judah. After some struggles, her fortunes turn up when Boaz, a wealthy kinsman of her husband, marries her.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Ruth}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab As queen of Israel, she interfered with the exclusive worship of Yahweh and fell at 
odds with the prophets Elijah and Elisha by persuading her husband Ahab to introduce the worship of the Tyrian god Baal-Melkart. Her wickedness provoked bickering that destabilized the kingdom. When Jehu took over Israel by killing her son Jehoram, he had
 her thrown out of a window.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Jezebel}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab A maidservant for Abraham and Sarah, Sarah treated her harshly when she became pregnant with her master\rquote s child. She ran away, but an angel convinced her to return to Abraham
\rquote s home. After Sarah gave birth to Isaac, she feared for her own child\rquote s lot and sent this woman and her son Ishmael into the desert. Name this possible ancestor of Muhammad.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Hagar}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 4. }{\f0\cgrid0 You\rquote ve seen the credits for the }{\i\f0\cgrid0 Simpsons}{\f0\cgrid0  a million times. Sometimes to the accompaniment of strang
e music, sometimes with humorous alterations in the Halloween episodes. But the real question is are you literate? Does any of it sink in?
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 a.\tab FTP, who is the voice of Burns, Smithers, Flanders, Skinner, Lovejoy, Dr. Hibbert, Kent Brockman, and all sorts of
 other people? He even has his own CD of comedic imitations of various popular figures.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Harry }{\b\ul Shearer}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 b.\tab FTP, what recently deceased comedian did the voice of Troy McClure?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Phil }{\b\ul Hartman}{ 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 c.\tab FTP, what female does the male voices of Bart, Nelson, the Flanders kids, and Officer Wiggum?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Nancy }{\b\ul Cartwright}{
\par 5. Time for some quick polls. You\rquote ll get 10 points every time your answers are correct. [moderator: this is to the tune of \ldblquote If you\rquote re happy and you know it\rdblquote , but do it slowly so they\rquote ll b
e able to hear the words distinctly]
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab If you have a hippocampus [hippo-campus] clap your hands.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ul Everybody}{ should have clapped his/her hands.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab If you have an epididymis [epi-did-da-muhs] clap your hands.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  Only }{\b\ul males}{ should have clapped their hands. If the sex of one of the team members is in doubt, do not consider their response.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab If you have two anal sphincters then your face will surely show it, if you have two working sphincters clap your hands.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ul Everybody}{ should clap his/her hands.
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {(there are sphincters on both ends of the rectum, designated internal and external.)
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {6. You knew it\rquote d pay off at some point. Recite Pi, given 3.141. You will receive 5 points for each correct digit beyond 3.141, up to a maximum of 30. An incorrect digit stops you.
\par ANSWER:\tab  3.141}{\b\ulw 5 9 2 7 5 3}{5897
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {(if a mistake is made after the six digits are given, accept the answer for full credit).
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {7. }{\cgrid0 For ten points each, answer these questions about the Algerian War of Independence.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab The conflict involved the mid-1950s invasion of 50,000 troops from what country?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul France}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab During that time, this leader of France promoted peace agreements leading to Algeria's plebiscite vote for independence.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Charles-Andr\'e9-Marie-Joseph }{\b\ul de Gaulle}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab The French sought to suppress this organization of Algerian militants in order to restore peace.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul National Liberation Front}{ or }{\b\ul FLN}{ or }{\b\ul Front de Liberation Nationale
\par }{
\par 8. With so much change in our lives, it\rquote s good to know that we have mathematical constants to rely on. For ten points each, let\rquote s see if you can name these divine, arousal-inducing numbers.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 a.\tab This says that the best way to divide a line in two is into one part of length one and another of}{ length .618...
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ul Golden Mean}{ (or }{\b\ul Divine Proportion}{\b\ulw  }{or }{\b\ul Golden Ratio}{ or }{\b\ul Golden Section}{)
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab The first two digits of this number are the second two digits of Pi. It forms the diagonal of a 1 by 1 square.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Pythagorus\rquote  }{\b\ul Constant}{\b\ulw  }{(accept on }{\b\ulw RAD}{ICAL }{\b\ulw 2}{ and square }{\b\ulw Root of 2}{)
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab This is the tastiest of the constants, and it has even been the title of a recent movie. From the same guy who figured out buoyancy, we bring you . . .
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Archimedes\rquote  }{Constant}{\b\ulw  }{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {9. The recent American bombing of Iraq showed some of the conflicts between Iraq, the U.S., and the United N
ations. FTPE, name some of the key figures involved in the relations of those three entities.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab This U.N weapons inspector filed a report that Iraq was slowing down the work of inspectors, helping precipitate the bombing.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Richard }{\b\ul Butler}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab This group is in charge of dismantling Iraqi weapons of mass destruction.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul UNSCOM}{ or }{\b\ul United Nations Special Commission}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab This man, as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, helped plan the bombing.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Henry }{\b\ul Shelton}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {
\par \page 10. Let's talk about texts--the Western musical choir kind from the 12th to the 15th century, that is.
\par a.\tab  FTP, this is a hymn or liturgical chant in which choir members alternate singing parts.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul antiphon}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab FTP, is a polyphonic or multipart setting of a sacred text that usually nixes the accompaniment.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul motet}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab 
Your last 10 points, this was first introduced in 14th-century Italy, then revived in a different form two centuries later. It's basically a secular composition for more than one voice, or the secular equivalent of a motet.
\par }\pard \s22\widctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul madrigal}{\b\i\ul\cf2 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {11. Answer the following questions concerning crucifixion.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Crucifixion was invented by these people, accomplished seafarers and traders, in the second millennium B.C. FTP, who were these twisted folks?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Phoenicians}{ (accept "Phoenicia" and alternates)
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab 
The nails were not actually hammered into the hand, as the bones of the hand could not support the weight of the body; rather they were hammered between the two bones of the lower arm. Name the bones FFP each.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul radius}{ and }{\b\ul ulna}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab 
Sometimes, they crucified people upside down, which created more social ignominy but quicker unconsciousness. One famous saint, who shares his name with a member of a folk singing trio, was executed in this fashion.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Saint }{\b\ul Peter}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {12. For ten points each, identify the African-American activists.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab 
Born in 1856 as a Virginian slave, he received no education until he was 16 and entered the Hampton Institute. He became a teacher and later in 1881, and he was the first principal at the Tus
kegee Institute. His non-threatening, peaceful racial views earned the nickname \ldblquote The Great Accomodator.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Booker Taliaferro }{\b\ul Washington}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab As head of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee, he grew increasingly alienated with the seemingly en
dless compromises endured by other organizations like the SCLC and CORE. He coined the term \ldblquote Black Power\rdblquote  and later joined the Black Panther Party as a Prime Minister. He died of cancer November of last year.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Stokely }{\b\ul Carmichael}{ or Kwame }{\b\ul Ture}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Born in 1935, this man gained international fame and notoriety for his searing memoir }{\i Soul On Ice}{
. A founding member of the Black Panther Party and later its Minister of Information, he and his wife Kathleen fled the country when the authorities started crack
ing down on the party. He later came back to this country in the late 1970s as an entrepreneur and born-again Christian. He also died in 1998.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Eldridge }{\b\ul Cleaver}{
\par 
\par 13. 30-20-10: Identify this biological thing.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {30:\tab Its discoverer won the 1953 Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine.
\par 20:\tab It is a nine-step process, important in metabolism, catalyzed at each step by enzymes such as isocitrate dehydrogenase.
\par 10:\tab It is the second step of respiration after glycolysis.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ul Krebs Cycle}{\b\ulw  }{(accept }{\b\ul TCA}{ Cycle or }{\b\ul Tricabocilic Acid Cycle}{)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\page 14. An episode of }{\ul Third Rock from the Sun}{
 this season depicted all the alien family reading John Grisham books and noting that the plots were all quite similar. Given a plot of a Grisham book, name it.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab A law school drop-out and his girlfriend together manage to manipulate court proceedings and cause a landmark case to be lost by tobacco companies.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul The Runaway Jury}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab With the help of his girlfriend, a former lawyer arranges his own capture while hiding in South America 
and manages to reveal government corruption while securing millions he had pilfered. His girlfriend takes and money and disappears in the end.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {ANSWER:\tab }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Partner}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab A young boy wise beyond his years hears a pre-suicide statement from a mobster's lawyer. S
ince he can locate the body of a murdered Senator, his life is in danger, so he runs to a female lawyer for protection.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {ANSWER:\tab }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Client
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {15. Answer these questions concerning the War of Spanish Succession, FTPE.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Name the treaty which ended the war.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab \-Peace (or Treaty) of }{\b\ul Utrecht}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab Name the grandson of Louis the XIV who became the first Bourbon monarch of Spain after the conflict.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Philip of Anjou}{ or }{\b\ul Philip V}{\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Name Philip\rquote s Austrian rival, another would-be claimant to the Spanish thron
e, who succeeded his brother, Joseph I, as emperor of Austria in 1711, in the middle of the conflict. He was also the father of Maria Theresa.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Charles VI}{ of the Holy Roman Empire (accept Charles III of Hungary)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {16. Given a line from }{\i Hamlet}{, tell me who said it, for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab For 5, "This above all--to thine own self be true. And it must follow, as the night the day, thou canst not then be false to any man."
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Polonius}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab For 10, "Oh, when sorrows come, they come not single spies, but in battalions."
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Claudius}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab For 15, "Take up the bodies. Such a sight as this becomes the field, but here shows much amiss. Go, bid the soldiers shoot."
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Fortinbras}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {17. Identify these Native Americans, FTPE.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Born into the P
awtuxet tribe, he was sold into Spanish slavery by Thomas Hunt. Escaping to England, he eventually made it back to North America. He became a member of the Plymouth colony and Governor William Bradford made him his Indian emissary for his fluency in Engli
sh
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Squanto}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab 
This chief of the Wampanoag Indians maintained peaceful relations with the English settlers throughout his lifetime. He and his colleague Samoset introduced the Plymouth settlers to essential planting, fishing, and cooking techniques.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Massasoit}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Massasoit\rquote 
s successor and second son, he vowed to resist further English expansion and attempted to organize a federation of tribes, eventually winning support from nearly all the New England tribes. A 17}{\super th}{ century conflict involving a
 series of ruthless Indian raids on frontier settlements and brutal retaliatory acts by the settlers is named after him.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul King Philip}{
\par }{\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\page 18. Answer these questions about composer Henry Purcell [PER-suhl], 10 points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Purcell\rquote s most famous work tells the story of this doomed pair of lovers.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Dido and Aeneas}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab Several of Purcell\rquote s odes were written for the feast day of this \ldblquote bright\rdblquote  saint.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Saint }{\b\ul Cecilia}{ [}{\i Hail bright Cecilia}{ and others]
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Purcell also made three settings of this poem by Col. Henry Heveningham whose }{\i second}{ line begins \ldblquote sing on.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul \ldblquote If music be the food of love\rdblquote }{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {19. Identify the political philosopher, 30-20-10.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {30:\tab The eldest son of Jaques de Secondat and Marie-Francois de Pesnel, he born in 1689 in the barony of La Br\'e8de, and was educated in Coll\'e8ge de Juilly and University of Bordeaux.

\par 20:\tab His anonymously-published }{\i Persian Letters}{ satirized both the reign of Louis XIV of France and the Roman Catholic Church.
\par 10:\tab This Frenchman is best known for his }{\i Spirit of the Laws}{. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Charles-Louis de Secondat, baron of }{\b\ul Montesquieu}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {
\par 20. 30-20-10, Name the writer.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {30:\tab After earning two degrees from Vanderbilt University, he became a teacher and writer-in-residence at a number of American universities and colleges, incl
uding the University of South Carolina, and served as poetry consultant to the Library of Congress. His first book of poems, }{\i Into the Stone}{, was published in 1960, when he was twenty-seven.
\par 20:\tab His poetry is noted for themes of nature, mysticism, religion, and history, and its lyrical portrayal of a world in conflict--predator with prey, soldier with soldier, and the self with itself. His poetry collections include }{\i 
The Whole Motion, Drowning with Others}{,}{\i  Buckdancer's Choice}{,}{\i  }{and}{\i  The Zodiac}{.
\par 10:\tab This Atlanta, Georgia-born writer is probably best known for his harrowing account of a disastrous canoe trip taken by four men down a Georgia river in his novel }{\i Deliverance}{. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab James }{\b\ul Dickey}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {21. Given the island colony, name the country that rules it. 10 points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Greenland\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Denmark}{
\par b.\tab Reunion\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul France}{\ul 
\par }{c.\tab Easter Island\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Chile}{
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {22. Answer these questions about prohibition, FTPE
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Also known as the National Prohibition Act, its passage in 1919 over President Wilson\rquote s veto was desig
ned to allow the enforcement of the 18th amendment. FTP, name this act, named after the Minnesota representative who introduced it.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Voldstead}{ Act
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab The Volstead Act defined intoxicating liquors as beverages which containing more than a certain percentage of alcohol by volume. FTP, what is this percentage?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul 0.5}{% or }{\b\ul \'bd percent}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab For five points each, state the number of the amendment that repealed prohibition, as well as the year in which it was passed. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul twenty-first}{, }{\b\ul 1933}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\page 23. Identify the epic heroic pairs that descended into the underworld and, usually, emerged, conquering death.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab In Greek myth, these two friends journeyed to the underworld and sought to take Persephone as a wife for one of them. Hades invited them to a dinner ban
quet, but once they sat down, they couldn\rquote t bring themselves to leave, as they had forgotten who and where they were. Name them for 5 points each.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Theseus}{ and }{\b\ul Pirithous}{ [pir-i-tho-us]
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab In Mayan myth, these two brothers journeyed to the underworld
 and challenged the gods of death to a ball-game, which they one. Their story is related in the Mayan codex. For 10 points, give the two word appellation by which the brothers are known.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul hero twins}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab These two friends journeyed to the underworld and challenged Death to games of Battleship and Twister, which they won. For 5 points each each, name them, first names are acceptable.

\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Bill}{ (William) S. Preston (Esquire) and }{\b\ul Ted}{ (Theodore) Logan
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }}