{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times;}{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f28\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f29\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f31\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f32\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f33\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid 
\sbasedon0 \snext20 Plain Text;}{\s21\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext21 Body Text 2;}{\s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext22 Bonus Part;}{\s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright 
\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon22 \snext23 Bonus First Line;}{\s24\li720\ri2250\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext24 Block Text;}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator Victor Kao}{\creatim\yr1999\mo2\dy2\hr23\min26}
{\revtim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr17\min7}{\printim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr17\min7}{\version14}{\edmins44}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords3179}{\nofchars18123}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale75 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i 
Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round X.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 3}}}{ of 7
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 5: TOSSUPS}{\fs24 

\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VIII. }{\fs24 Round 5.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24  PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\fs24\lang1024 2}}}{\fs24  of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs19\fs24  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\cs19\fs24\lang1024 8}}}{\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }\pard \sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {1. An example of a pathological curve, it has infinite side length but encloses a finite area, which approaches 8/5ths the area of the original triangle.  It is a fractal, with dimension
 of about 1.26.  It is created by trisecting the sides of an equilateral triangle and adding into the center section another triangle with sides 1/3rd the length of the original side.  This process continues indefinitely.  FTP, name this famous curve whic
h shares a resemblance with a hexagonally symmetric water crystal.\line ANSWER:\tab  Von Koch\rquote s }{\b\ulw Snowflake}{ curve
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 2. This actor\rquote s best characters included Ethan Edwards and Sergeant John Stryker.; his worst was probably Genghis Khan. He  made his name in westerns lik
e Stagecoach and war movies like The Green Berets.  FTP, name this American screen legend, nicknamed \ldblquote The Duke,\rdblquote  who won his only Oscar for }{\i True Grit}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab John }{\b\ul Wayne}{ (accept also Marion Michael Morrison)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {3. Its county seat is Jefferson. Its residents 
include Joanna Burden, the Compsons, and the Sutpens. It exists, however, only in the mind and works of its creator, who based it on his hometown of Oxford, Mississippi. FTP, name the setting for most of William Faulkner\rquote s novels.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Yoknapatawpha}{ County
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 4. All Natural\'85 No Preservatives\'85 Servings Per Container: 2\'85 Only natural products are used, taste, color, and body may vary\'85 No deposit elsewhere LTP\'85
 All of these phrases appear on the drink bottles made by this popular beverage company that can be reached at 333 West Merrick Road in Valley Stream, New York. FTP, what firm founded in 1972 produces drinks "Made from the best stuff on earth"?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Snapple}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {5. This famous judge was born in St. Paul, Minnesota in 1907. He began private practice in 193
1. In 1953, he got a job with the Department of Justice and in 1956 he became a judge for the US Court of Appeals in Washington DC. A strident critic of judicial activism, his reign as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court made conservatives much happier tha
n they were during the days of his predecessor Earl Warren. FTP, name this famous legal figure, who held the chief justice seat from 1969 to 1986.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Warren Earl }{\b\ul Burger}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {6. This writer, born in 1924, grew up in poverty in Harlem.  From age, 14 to 16 h
e worked as a preacher in a revivalist church and later wrote about the experience. In 1948, he left for Paris and spent the next years there, writing the novel }{\i Giovanni's Room}{ and a collection of essays called }{\i Notes of a Native Son}{
. FTP, name this author who wrote }{\i Go Tell It on the Mountain}{ and }{\i The Fire Next Time}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab James }{\b\ul Baldwin}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {7. You land in Malindi, and drive up the coast to spend the night in Lamu. The next day you start the long drive north to Wajir, but realize after a couple hours that you a
ctually wanted to go south to Mombasa. But you take a wrong turn, and next thing you know you are in Eldoret. Finally, FTP, in what country are you in if you decide to just get a map in Nairobi?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Kenya}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {8. Founded in 1976, dominant early members 
included Virginia Commonwealth and UAB. Hit by the loss of teams to the Metro and Great Midwest conferences, this league merged with the American South Conference in 1991. Current members include Arkansas State and Arkansas-Little Rock. FTP, name this NCA
A division I conference, who will welcome the University of Denver in 1999.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Sun Belt }{\b\ul Conference}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {9. Ino hated her stepson, Phrixus [FRIK-sis], so she convinced her husband Athamas to sacrifice Phrixus to alleviate a famine. Phrixus\rquote s mother, Nephele
 [NEH-fuh-lee] sent Chrysomallus [krih-soh-MAH-lihs], which carried Phrixus to safety in Colchis. A thankful Phrixus sacrificed Chrysomallus, a ram, and hung part of it up in Ares\rquote s grove. FTP, name this object, sought by Jason and the Argonauts.

\par ANSWER:\tab the }{\b\ul golden fleece}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
10.  In males, it contains ammonia at a concentration 500 times greater than blood plasma. It also contains sulfate and creatinine at concentrations substantially higher than in blood. It is sterile in a healthy person, but its pH is, on 
average, lower. Certain medication and food dyes can change its color, which is normally determined by urochrome and concentration. FTP, what is expelled when you micturate?\line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Urine}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {11. Soren Kierkegaard coined this term in his }{\i Concluding Unscientific Postscript}{ when he tried to describe man\rquote 
s ability to commit to an unprovable concept like God. This metaphor added emphasis to his belief that rationalists like Hegel could never prove the existence of God by rational argument. FTP, name this often-us
ed term, also the title of a movie that depicted Steve Martin as a sleazy preacher.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul leap of faith}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {12. Launched in November of 1972, this service now reaches people in more than 40 countries. It is now a division of Time Warner Entertainment Compan
y and is the most successful in its class in earnings, subscribers, awards, and ratings. Perhaps surprisingly, one of its core channels is Cinemax. For 10 points identify this premium television provider that \ldblquote is not just TV.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Home Box Office}{ (accept }{\b\ul HBO}{)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
13. He immigrated to the U.S. in 1913, settling in Portland, Oregon.  He later won a scholarship to Yale University but left in 1923 to pursue his career in painting, ultimately killing himself in 1970.  FTP, name this painter of fuzzy-edged, beau
tifully colored, floating rectangles who was the focus of a 1998 summer retrospective exhibition at the National Gallery of Art in Washington D.C.
\par ANSWER:\tab Mark }{\b\ul Rothko}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {14. Mick Jagger read this Shelly poem to the audience in their 1969 Hyde Park free conce
rt in memory of the recently deceased Brian Jones. Shelly in turn wrote it for his recently deceased friend John Keats. FTP, name this poem written in Spenserian stanzas that declared that we \ldblquote decay/ like corpses in a charnel\rdblquote 
 and celebrated the title character\rquote s union \ldblquote The Eternal, which must glow/ Through time and change.\rdblquote 
\par ANSWER:\tab \ldblquote }{\b\ul Adonais}{\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0\fs22 15. He was the grandson of King Saheka of Shoa and in 1930 he was proclaimed Negusa Negast, or King of Kings.  He was born Tafari Makonnen, but following his coronati
on he became known by his current name.  For ten points, name the Lion of Judah, said to have descended from the house of David, who is worshipped and revered by rasta men everywhere.  
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Haile }{\b\ul Selassie}{ or }{\b\ul Ras Tafari
\par }{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {16. 
He kills an old pawnbroker and her sister for money, as well as to prove his own invincibility. He is troubled by his actions, and confides in Sonia, a warm-hearted prostitute. He cannot recover from guilt, and ends up turning himself in, earning an eight
 year sentence in Siberia. For ten points, name this central character of Dostoyevski's novel, }{\i Crime and Punishment}{.
\par ANSWER: \tab Rodion Romanovich }{\b\ul Raskolnikov}{
\par }\pard \sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {17. For chlorine it is 3.2.  For sodium, it is 0.9, indicat
ing that their bonding is ionic in character.  These numbers are taken from a scale for measuring it created by Linus Pauling in 1932.  On this scale, fluorine is a 4.0, the highest.  FTP, give the eight syllable term that refers to the ability of an atom
 to attract electrons to it.  \line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Electronegativity }{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 18. He worked as a successful lawyer until being appointed attorney general by President Buchanan in 1860. He was later named legal adviser to Lincoln's secretary of war Simon Cameron in 1861. When
 Cameron resigned, this man took over the post in 1862. He worked in Andrew Johnson\rquote s administration afterwards, but fought with Johnson over Reconstruction policy and represented the cabinet\rquote 
s Radical Republicans. FTP name this cabinet secretary whose dismissal supposedly violated the Tenure of Office Act and nearly led to Johnson's removal from office.
\par ANSWER:\tab Edwin }{\b\ul Stanton}{
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\cgrid 19. It was based on a play written by Alexander Dumas the younger about his mistress, Marie Duplessis. Its title literally translated means \ldblquote The Woman Gone Astray\rdblquote 
 and it tells the story of young Alfredo Germont, and his love, the courtesan Violetta Valery, who sacrifices her own happiness to protect the name of his respectable family.  FTP, name this opera, written in 1853 by Giuseppe Verdi.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul\cgrid La Traviata}{\cgrid 
\par }\pard\plain \sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
20. 5. This drug belongs in a class of drugs known as SSRIs, or Selective Serotonin Reuptake  Inhibitors. Known chemically as Fluoxetine Hydrochloride, this drug was the number two best  seller in net gross in the year 1997. For
 ten points, name this drug, an antidepressent  that seems to have become an icon for our decade. \line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Prozac}{ (Accept Fluoxetine Hydrochloride on early buzz, but no extra points, it\rquote s not  that special)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {21. He was born in 1776 in Henrico County, and 
was first recorded in the Virginia census of 1783.  But he did not enter the national spotlight until 1800, when he led a far-reaching slave revolt from the plantation of his owner, Thomas Prosser.  For ten points, name this slave who is often seen as a m
essianic figure.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Gabriel}{ Prosser (prompt on \ldblquote Prosser\rdblquote )
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {22. Disturbed individuals used to think it was fun to call schools and sports venues with bombs threats, but a more trendy threat has emerged to terrorize certain parts of the country. Also kno
wn as splenic fever, this bacterial disease was mentioned by Moses in Exodus. In May 1998, the Department of Defense decided to vaccinate all American service members against it. FTP identify this disease that most commonly affects cattle, sheep, and goat
s.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul anthrax}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s20\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0\fs22 
23. Mark Twain publishes Tom Sawyer. 264 soldiers of the 7th Cavalry were killed on June 25 along with their leader, Colonel George Custer, at Little Big Horn. For ten points, name this year when Samuel Tilden lost a disputed presidentia
l election to Rutherford Hayes despite receiving more of the popular vote; America\rquote s 100}{\f0\fs22\super th}{\f0\fs22  birthday.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\f0\fs22\ul 1876}{\f0\fs22\cgrid0 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 5: BONI}{\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {1. Consider HyperBunny, a small rabbit that fights evil by converting
 his matter into energy and then magically reforming after the threat is vanquished (and generally vaporized).  Answer the following questions about HyperBunny.
\par a. \tab FFP each, what equation gives the energy generated by HyperBunny\rquote s matter-to-energy conversion and in what units is this energy, if the matter is given in kilograms?
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw E=MC^2}{ and }{\b\ulw Kilojoules }{ (moderator: if they do not get the question correct, read the answers.  In the equation, E is energy, M is mass, C is the speed of light, and ^2 indicated \ldblquote squared\rdblquote ) 
\par b. \tab If HyperBunny weighs 3 kilograms, FTP how much energy is liberated if he completely converts his matter into energy?  You have 15 seconds for calculation.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw 2.7 times 10 to the 17th kilojoules}{ (acc. equivalent answers, 3x(3x10^8)^2)
\par c. \tab We all know that HyperBunny can\rquote t convert back from energy to matter without more energy being added because of this consideration  FTP, name the comforting assurance that all of existence is slowly and inevitably going to Hell.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Entropy }{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 2. }{\fs22\cgrid0 Given the "Roman" Emperor, name his main capitol for ten points each:
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab Justinian \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Constantinople}{\fs22  (accept Byzantium, but not Istanbul)
\par b.\tab Charlemagne \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Aachen}{\fs22  (accept, grudgingly, Aix-la-Chappelle)
\par c.\tab Honorius \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Ravenna}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par 3. Identify the following poetry terms for ten points each:
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab Greek for "a carrying up or back," a device used for emphasis that involves the repetition of a word or phrase at the beginning of several sentences or clauses, as
 in the well-known passage from the Old Testament (Ecclesiastes 3:1-2) that begins "For everything there is a season, and a time/ for every matter under heaven: a time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up what is planted;
 . . ."
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul anaphora}{ or }{\b\ul epanaphora}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab A case in which a couplet consists of two lines which are run-on; that is, the meaning of the first line continues into the second.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul enjambment}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Popular mostly in France, it is a line with 12 syllables with
 major stresses on the 6th and on the last syllable, and one secondary accent in each half line. It lends itself to the expression of simple or complex emotions, narrative description, or grandiose patriotic sentiment and is known as the heroic line in Fr
ench poetry.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Alexandrine}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 4. For fifteen points each, identify the financial terms from a brief description:
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab The initial offering of a company's security to the public, also called unseasoned issue.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul IPO }{or }{\b\ul initial public offering}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab A coefficient measure of both systematic risk and the sensitivity of a security's return to the movements of the market.  
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul beta
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Some companies have this form of stock available to investors. This stock class had a prior claim to dividends paid by the
 company and to the assets of the company in the event of its dissolution. Dividends are usually set at a fixed annual rate that must be paid before dividends are distributed to the common stockholders. Hint: it\rquote 
s also the name of a very cheesy cologne.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul preferred stock
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 5. Answer these questions about Major League Soccer for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab Among the two-thirds of all MLS teams which made the playoffs this season were both of the league\rquote s new expansion teams.  For five points each,
 name these newest franchises.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Miami }{\b\ul Fusion}{ and Chicago }{\b\ul Fire}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab The MLS playoffs have been dominated by the D.C. United, which has won both of the league\rquote 
s two championships, thanks in large measure to a star midfielder from the Bolivian national team.  For ten points, name this playmaker nicknamed \ldblquote El Diablo.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Marco }{\b\ul Etcheverry}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Another major factor in D.C.\rquote s success has been their head coach, who
 is now the leading candidate to replace former U.S. national team coach Steve Sampson.  FTP, name him.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Bruce }{\b\ul Arena}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 6. Name the artist from works. 30-20-10-5.
\par 30:\tab }{\i Milton Dictating \ldblquote Paradise Lost\rdblquote  to his Daughters}{
\par 20:\tab }{\i Death of Sardanapalus}{
\par 10:\tab }{\i The Women of Algiers}{
\par 5:\tab }{\i Liberty Leading the People}{ 
\par ANSWER:\tab Eugene }{\b\ul Delacroix}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 7. I'll give you a biblical trio, and you tell me its members for ten points. You'll get five if you can name two of the members, and nothing if you can name only one.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab The three sons of Noah
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Shem}{, }{\b\ul Ham}{, and }{\b\ul Japheth}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab The three magi or wise men
\par }\pard\plain \s24\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Balthazar}{\fs22 , }{\b\fs22\ul Melchior}{\fs22 , and }{\b\fs22\ul Gaspar}{\fs22  (or }{\b\fs22\ul Casper}{\fs22 )
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab The three friends of Daniel who walked in a fiery furnace.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Shadrach}{, }{\b\ul Meshach}{, and }{\b\ul Abed'nego}{ 
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {(accept }{\b\ul Hanani'ah}{, }{\b\ul Mish'a-el}{, and }{\b\ul Azari'ah}{)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {8. }{\fs22 Answer questions about a nasty political group for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab For 5 points, this militant religio-political movement that now controls 90% of Afghanistan. Its name means \ldblquote holy scholars.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Taliban}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab For 10 points, the Taliban emerged as a student movement from Koranic schools in what country?
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Pakistan}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab For 15 points, name any one of the three countries that recognizes the Taliban as Afghanistan\rquote s government. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Pakistan}{, }{\b\ul United Arab Emirates}{ (UAE), or }{\b\ul Saudi Arabia}{ 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {
\par }{\fs22 9. The country of Nicaragua may be famous to us for giving Ronald Reagan a scandal, but it has a history of its own.  For ten points each, identify these leaders from Nicaraguan history.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab Born on January 23, 1946, he became mayo
r of Managua and helped it recover from the 1972 earthquake prior to rising through the ranks of the Liberal Constitutional Party.  Eventually, he became President.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Arnoldo }{\b\ul Aleman}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab He was born in 1945 and joined the Sandanista National Liberation
 Front after briefly studying law.  He was made the head of urban resistance and eventually became President as well. As President, he maintained a policy of neutrality in foreign policy.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Daniel }{\b\ul Ortega}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab This person defeated Ortega in a presidenti
al election, instituting an agenda of reduced military spending, domestic peace. When ousted from office, this person went on to community service and minor participation in the political scene. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Violeta }{\b\ul Chamorro}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {10. Name these chemicals involved in muscle function.
\par a. \tab  For ten points, muscle contraction is initiated by this neurotransmitter, also used in the parasympathetic nervous system.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Acetylcholine}{   (uh-seet-uhl-KO-leen)
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {b. \tab  The interaction of these two proteins is the molecular basis for muscle contraction.  Name them for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Actin}{  and }{\b\ulw Myosin}{  (MYE-oh-sin)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 11. 30-20-10, name the author
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 30:\tab Born in Lowell, Massachusetts in 1922, he is of French-Canadian descent and learned English as a second language.
\par 20:\tab He was one of the leading spokesman for the Beat movement, and his minor works include }{\i\fs22 The Subterraneans}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 Lonesome Traveler}{\fs22 .
\par 10:\tab He is best known for his landmark 1957 novel, }{\i\fs22 On the Road}{\fs22 .
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Jean-Louis (Jack) }{\b\ul Kerouac}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 12. Give the following related words for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {a.\tab In classical Greece, a resident-alien of a city that had some of the privileges of citizenship was called this.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul metic}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 b.\tab A substance that induces vomiting.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul emetic}{
\par c.\tab The phase of liquid crystal normally used in LCD displays.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul nemetic}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 
13. Among Picasso's wives and lovers, the four best-known women are Jacqueline Roque, Dora Maar, Francieose Gilot, and Marie-Therese Walter.  Given the name of a Picasso painting, identify the woman who modeled for it for ten points each.
\par a.\tab }{\i\fs22 Sitting Woman with a Green Scarf}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Jacqueline }{\b\ul Roque}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab }{\i\fs22 The Weeping Woman}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Dora }{\b\ul Maar}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab }{\i\fs22 Girl Before a Mirror}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Marie-Therese }{\b\ul Walter}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 14. For ten points each, identify the philosophers who wrote the following works on education.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab }{\i\fs22 \'c9mile }{\fs22 (1762)}{\i\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Jean-Jacques }{\b\ul Rousseau}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab }{\i\fs22 The School and Society}{\fs22  (1899) and }{\i\fs22 The Child and the Curriculum}{\fs22  (1902)
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab John }{\b\ul Dewey}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab }{\i\fs22 The Aims of Education: A Plea for Reform}{\fs22  (1916)
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Alfred North }{\b\ul Whitehead}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 15. Do you like Mel Gibson? If so, then you\rquote ll be able to answer these history questions with no problems, ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab Name the legendary Scottish freedom fighter who lived from 1270 to 1305 and fought against English control of  Sc
otland. He achieved a stunning string of victories until his defeat at Falkirk in 1298.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab William }{\b\ul Wallace}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab For another ten points, name the English king that William Wallace fought against. His efforts to strengthen the crown and the rule of law ea
rned him the nickname of the \ldblquote English Justinian.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Edward II}{ or }{\b\ul Edward Longshanks}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Although the movie and folk tales give Wallace all the credit, it was this Scottish king who in 1306 raised the rebellion that drove the English out of Scotland. FT
P, name the man who won at Bannockburn.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Robert I}{ or }{\b\ul Robert the Bruce}{ or }{\b\ul Robert VIII the Bruce}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {16. \tab Name the following men associated with building the A-bomb FTP each.
\par a. The brigadeer general in charge of all army activities relating to the bomb.
\par ANSWER:\tab  General Leslie R. }{\b\ulw Groves }{
\par b. \tab The scientist who directed the laboratory at Los Alamos.
\par ANSWER:\tab  Julius Robert }{\b\ulw Oppenheimer }{
\par c. \tab This Danish-born scientist claimed to have refused to develop a German A-bomb for ethical reasons, but declassified intelligence indicates he just thought it impossible. You might know him for his model of the atom. 
\par ANSWER:\tab  Neils }{\b\ulw Bohr
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 17. Given the country, name the capital for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab Paraguay\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Asuncion}{\fs22\ul 
\par }{\fs22 b.\tab Philippines\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Manila}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab Malta\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Valletta}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par 18. 30-20-10. Identify this band.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 30:\tab It consists of Steven Page on vocal, Ed Robertson on Guitar, Jim Creeggan on Double Bass, and Tyler Stewart on Drums.
\par 20:\tab Its name is supposed to represent the feelings of innocence and discovery a little kid might experience. They\rquote re also appearing on }{\i\fs22 Saturday Night Live}{\fs22  tonight.
\par 10:\tab If you can't figure out this Canadian band, you probably won't have it figured out  \ldblquote One Week\rdblquote   from now, either.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Barenaked Ladies}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 
19. Conjoin the following four video games, five points for each of the first two, ten points for each of the second two.  An arcade shooting game brought to the SNES featuring Aerosmith's music; the first in
 a series of polygon-based Star Wars simulators released by LucasArts; Origin's revolutionary space combat simulation that touted "what you see is what you play"; and a series of Apogee side-scrolling games in which you control a young, football-helmeted 
hero who vanquishes aliens.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Revolution X Wing Commander Keen}{
\par (answers: Revolution X, X-Wing, Wing Commander, Commander Keen)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 20. }{\fs22\cgrid0 30-20-10, name the poet.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22\cgrid0 30:\tab Like the hybridity of her Indian, Spanish, and Basque background, she combined careers in education, cultural ministry, and even diplomacy
\par 20:\tab Her intensely emotional and personal verse, displayed in poems like "Dolor" and "Sonnets of Death," were sometimes translated by the likes of Doris Dana and Langston Hughes.
\par 10:\tab In 1945, this Chilean became the first Latin-American woman to win a Nobel Prize for Literature.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Gabriela }{\b\ul Mistral}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 21. \tab Given a description of the symbiotic relationship of two organisms, classify it FTP each.
\par a.  A tapeworm living in a human\rquote s intestine absorbs nutrients from the human\rquote s food; the human receives fewer nutrients.
\par ANSWER:\tab   }{\b\ulw Parasitism}{
\par b.  A remora attached to a shark\rquote s belly eats the remains of a kill left behind by the shark; the shark is unaffected.
\par ANSWER:\tab   }{\b\ulw Commensalism}{
\par c. A clownfish attracts predatory fish within range of a sea anemone\rquote s (ah-NEM-oh-nee) tentacles, bringing food for the anemone, while the tentacles protect the clownfish from attack.
\par ANSWER:\tab   }{\b\ulw Mutualism}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {22. Name the following United States vice-presidents (10 points each):
\par a.\tab He was Abraham Lincoln's first vice-president.
\par ANSWER:\tab Hannibal }{\b\ul Hamlin}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab He was vice president during Theodore Roosevelt's second term.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Charles Warren }{\b\ul Fairbanks}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab He was Herbert Hoover's vice-president.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Charles }{\b\ul Curtis}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 23. Given a short story, name its author. Ten points on the first clue, 5 points if you need another.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab 10:\tab "My Double and How He Undid Me"
\par }\pard \s22\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 5:\tab "The Man Without a Country"
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Edward Everett }{\b\ul Hale}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab 10:\tab "Ball of Fat"
\par }\pard \s22\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 5:\tab "The Necklace"
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Guy de }{\b\ul Maupassant}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab 10:\tab "Charles"
\par }\pard \s22\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 5:\tab "The Lottery"
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Shirley }{\b\ul Jackson}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 
\par }}