{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times;}
{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 
\additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 
footer;}{\s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext20 Bonus First Line;}{
\s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext21 Bonus Part;}{\s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext22 Plain Text;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-1968261350\listsimple{\listlevel
\levelnfc4\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid110439408}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid110439408
\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator Victor Kao}{\creatim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr6\min58}{\revtim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr17\min13}{\printim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr17\min12}{\version7}{\edmins23}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords3364}{\nofchars19176}
{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round X.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 3}}}{ of 7
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \qj\fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND OF 32: TOSSUPS}{
\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VIII. }{\fs24 Round 11.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24  PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\fs24\lang1024 9}}}{\fs24  of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs19\fs24  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\cs19\fs24\lang1024 9}}}{\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }{1. King Suryavarman II (}{\i Soor-ie-ah-var-man}{) had this temple built in the 12}{\super th}{ century CE. Dedicated to the God Vishnu, it served as the king\rquote 
s tomb and perhaps as astronomical observatory as well. Its bas reliefs run for nearly half a mile in its third enclosure. Formerly guilded towers and moats added to its greatness, but it lies
 in ruins now. FTP, name this Cambodian remnant of the Khmer empire, the largest religious structure in the world.
\par }{\fs20 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs20\ul Angkor Wat}{
\par 
\par 2. Almost continuous territorial expansion constituted the early history of this empire, founded around 1300. By the 1700
s, feudal states and civil unrest had arisen, and its adherence to tradition kept it technologically stunted and sped its decline. FTP, name this empire, which in 1922 was replaced by the Turkish Republic.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Ottoman}{ Empire
\par 
\par 3. This winner of the 1969
 Nobel Prize for Literature accepted the award but did not attend the ceremony to avoid making a public speech. Born in Dublin in 1903, he settled in Paris in 1937 and wrote in both French and English. He stripped reality to its naked bone in his works an
d filled them with intellectual allusions to those who influenced him, including Dante, Descartes and Joyce.  FTP, name this author of "}{\i Waiting for Godot}{." 
\par ANSWER:\tab Samuel }{\b\ul Beckett}{
\par 
\par 4. With an area of approximately 12,000 square miles, it is the ninth larges
t lake in the world and the fourth deepest. Bordered by three countries in Africa, it is the southernmost of the great rift lakes. Overfishing due to poverty in the surrounding areas threatens to cause economic and environmental problems in the future. FT
P, name this lake, which shares its name with a bordering country.
\par ANSWER:\tab Lake }{\b\ul Malawi}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {5. Trying to be a good company, this manufacturer has asserted that its products \ldblquote are designed for children to collect and are priced to sell for about $5.00.\rdblquote  Of course
, this company also gave its employees \ldblquote Billionaire Bears\rdblquote  to keep or sell, and they have been going for upwards of $2000 in the secondary market. FTP name the company that produces Pillow Pals, Attic Treasures, and Beanie Babies.

\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Ty}{, Inc.
\par }\pard \qj\sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {6. His Baccalaureate thesis was titled, \ldblquote De Principio Individui (On the Principle of the Individual).\rdblquote 
 and he was widely known throughout Europe as a Metaphysician and logician. FTP, name this German-born philosopher, mathematician, and political advisor, 
probably most famous for his invention of Differential and integral calculus, working separately from Newton.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab  Gottfried Wilhelm }{\b\ulw Leibniz}{
\par 
\par 7. }{\cf1 They are produced because DNA polymerase can only read in a three-prime to five-prime direction.\~ Each one 
starts with an RNA oligonucleotide (oh-lig-oh-NEW-clee-oh-tide) primer, which is later removed when they are joined together by DNA ligase.\~ FTP, identify these short segments of DNA which are synthesized on the lagging strand during replication.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw\cf1 Okazaki fragments}{
\par 
\par 8. Born on June 8, 1867 in Wisconsin, this architect had a career that spanned over 70 years during which he produced a legacy of over 400 buildings.  He evolved from doing shingle style houses in Oak Park in the late 1890s to designing 
the spiraling ramps of the Guggenheim Museum in New York in 1959. FTP, name this premier architect of the 20}{\super th}{ century who pioneered the Prairie and USonian styles.
\par ANSWER:\tab Frank Lloyd }{\b\ul Wright
\par }{
\par 9. The origin of this good luck talisman started in show busine
ss, where it was used as a makeup powder puff. Losing it might delay a performance, which meant bad luck. Hence the reverse when it was not. Another explanation comes from the belief that the young of the talisman\rquote 
s animal source are born with eyes open and have the power of the Evil Eye. FTP, what is this charm that Bugs Bunny would disapprove of?\line ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul rabbit\rquote s foot}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {10. This interpretive dancer and choreographer was born in San Francisco in 1878. As a child, her parents\rquote  bitter divorce drove her to dec
lare that she would welcome love but never marry. She overcame poverty and became famous for passionate dances that reflected a Greek revival theme. FTP, name this artist who was tragically strangled by her own veil when it caught in the wheel of her auto
mobile.
\par ANSWER:\tab Isadora }{\b\ul Duncan}{
\par 
\par 11. He defined a fork as an instrument used chiefly for the purpose of putting dead animals into the mouth, and wrote many short stories with similar dark humor, such as \ldblquote Oil of Dog\rdblquote  and \ldblquote The Hypnotist.\rdblquote 
 He was also known for western-themed stories like \ldblquote The Stranger\rdblquote  and horror stories like \ldblquote The Boarded Window.\rdblquote  FTP, identify this author of  \ldblquote An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge\rdblquote  and }{\i 
The Devil\rquote s Dictionary.}{
\par ANSWER:\tab Ambrose }{\b\ul Bierce}{
\par 
\par 12. }{\cf1 This class of organic compounds has a carbon double-bonded to one oxygen and single-bonded to another, with the latter oxygen connecting to the rest of the molecule.\~
 They are typically produced by the reaction of an organic acid with an alcohol.\~ FTP, identify these compounds,
 of which fats are a prime example, which give fruits and other foods their distinctive flavors and share their name with a Biblical matriarch. \line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw\cf1 Ester}{\cf1 s}{
\par 
\par 13. This baseball manager played as an infielder for the Milwaukee Brewers and Toronto Blue Ja
ys from 1973-1979.  He later worked as a scout and minor league manager before being hired to replace Cito Gaston in 1997.  FTP, name this Blue Jays manager who has come under fire for lying about his service in Vietnam and about a basketball scholarship 
he said he\rquote d received from UCLA.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Tim}{othy }{\b\ul Johnson
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {14. }{\cgrid0 
This war saw one the most successful CIA foreign interventions ever, as guerilla soldiers proved that they could handle modern American Stinger missiles. A 1978 communist party coup of their nation\rquote 
s centrist government sparked the conflict. After reforms and domestic suppression of opposition led to Muslim uprisings, the Soviets invaded but failed to crush the rebels. FTP, name this 1978-92 conflict.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Afghan}{ War (accept \ldblquote war between USSR and Afghanistan,\rdblquote  or equivalent)
\par 
\par 15. It was said his fellow Kongsberg residents could time their watches by the daily sojourns of this professor at the local university. His most substantial contribution to philosophy was to relate the sensory and }{\i a priori}{
 elements in knowledge to allow for Leibniz\rquote s rationalism and Hume\rquote s empiricism to coexist. And if that doesn\rquote t make much sense to you, reading his books is even worse. FTP identify this author of }{\i Critique of Pure Reason}{.

\par ANSWER:\tab Immanuel }{\b\ul Kant}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {16. The National Security Agency has never had a sense of humor. This popular children\rquote 
s toy is not allowed in its buildings because of its ability to record and play back the human voice, bad news to all parents who begged, borrowed, and stole so their little code\_b
reaker could have one of these flatulent, burping, talking creatures. FTP, name this banned product and popular Christmas toy.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Furby}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {17. It is a book of questions and answers that explain a faith or religious policy. Early ones concentrated on the Apostles\rquote  Creed, the Lord\rquote 
s Prayer, and the Ten Commandments. Later ones have expanded to address subjects like abortion and female priests. Jesuit Peter Canisius wrote the most famous Catholic one and Martin Luther produced both small and large varieties
. FTP identify the type of theological work.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul catechism}{
\par 
\par 18. Her first television role was in a Playtex nurser commercial when she was file months old. Her single mother was an actress, so she grew up around the stage, landing guest appearance on both }{\i Family Ties}{ and }{\i Silver Spoons}{
. She drew more laughs, however, during her 11 years on the Fox network. FTP identify this actress who was nominated for a Golden Globe for playing Jesse Campos.
\par ANSWER:\tab Christina }{\b\ul Applegate}{
\par 
\par 19. He studied psychology with Wi
lhelm Wundt in Leipzig, an experience which confirmed his positivist views. When he returned to the United States, he became a newspaperman in New York City, attempting to uncover evidence of political corruption. In 1901, he became editor of }{\i McClure
\rquote s Magazine}{. For ten points, name this muckracker, author of the sociological case study, }{\i The Shame of the Cities}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab Lincoln }{\b\ul Steffens}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {20. He had already earned the Nobel Prize before he embarked upon the study that would gain him even greater fame. He int
ended to study the built-in nervous control of various digestive reflexes in canines. In the course of his work, a new fact emerged - that the salivary reflex can be set off by stimuli that at first had no effect. FTP, name this Russian physiologist who s
tudied conditioning by training a hungry dog to salivate at the sound of a bell.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Ivan Petrovich }{\b\ul Pavlov}{
\par 
\par 21. }{\cf1 This device, often seen in hands-on science museums, looks like a large metallic sphere attached to an insulated column.\~
 Inside the column, a rapidly spinning belt is rubbed by a metal brush, sending electrons into the brush which then enter the sphere.\~ FTP, name this static electricity generator, used to make a volunteer\rquote s hair stand on end.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw\cf1 Van De Graaf Generator}{\cf1  
\par }{
\par 22. }{\i The Prodigal Daughter}{, }{\i A Matter of Honor}{, }{\i Not a Penny More}{, }{\i Not a Penny Less}{, }{\i As the Crow Flies}{, }{\i Honor Among Thieves}{, }{\i First Among Equals}{. These are all works, FTP, by what best-selling British author?

\par ANSWER:\tab Jeffery }{\b\ul Archer}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {23. As an author, he has enjoyed considerable early literary success from his commentaries on present day pop culture. His recent novel, }{\i Girlfriend in a Coma}{
, features a revamped Rip Van Winkle criticizing the overworked, mean-spirited 90s from the perspective of the lost Eden of 1979. Also known for his artful ad designs, FTP, name this man, who coined the term, \ldblquote Generation X\rdblquote .
\par ANSWER:\tab Douglas }{\b\ul Coupland}{
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \page \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 11: BONI}{\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par }{\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 1. Answer the following about an author.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab This writer, a Newport News, Virginia native, served in the Marines, graduated from Duke, and was advisory editor of the }{\i\fs22 Paris Review}{\fs22 
 in the 50s. He writes most significantly about themes of southern life and despair in a cruel world.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab William }{\b\ul Styron}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab Perhaps Styron\rquote 
s most controversial book, this historical novel took told a first-person story of an 1831 Virginia slave revolt. It caused particular anger over its portrayal of the protagonist as the sexually potent lover of his white mistress.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\i The}{\b\i  }{\b\i\ul Confessions of Nat Turner}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab This is Styron\rquote s 1990 autobiographical account of his battles against depression.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Darkness Visible}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 2. FTPE, answer these questions about France\rquote s Reign of Terror.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab This organization, led by Robespierre, directed the Reign of Terror.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Committee of Public Safety}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab This was the leader of the Jacobins\rquote  right wing in the Reign of Terror, called the Indulgents.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Georges }{\b\ul Danton}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab This leftist Jacobin head led an anti-Christian campaign in 1793, but tried to organize a revolt against Robespierre with the Cordeliers Club and was guillotined.

\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Jacques }{\b\ul Hebert
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 3. Identify the following composers, who both died before the age of 40, for ten points each.
\par a.\tab This Polish composer, a longtime companion of George Sand, died at the age of thirty-nine of tuberculosis.  For ten points, name this pianist, who produced many mazurkas, nocturnes, and polonaises for the piano.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Frederick }{\b\ul Chopin}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab 
An Austrian composer, he died of typhoid fever at the young age of thirty-one, but is remembered for several of his Romantic period compositions.  For ten points, name the composer of }{\i\fs22 Swan Song}{\fs22 , the }{\i\fs22 Trout Piano Quintet}{\fs22 
, and a symphony in B minor, known as the }{\i\fs22 Unfinished Symphony}{\fs22 .
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Franz Peter }{\b\ul Schubert}{ 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab 
A German Romantic composer, he eventually became the music director to King Frederick William IV of Prussia, before dying at the age of thirty-eight.  For fifteen points, name the man who gave us such works as the }{\i\fs22 Scotch}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 
Italian }{\fs22 Symphonies, }{\i\fs22 The Hebrides}{\fs22 , and a famed wedding march from }{\i\fs22 A Midsummer Night\rquote s Dream}{\fs22 .  
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Felix }{\b\ul Mendelssohn}{ (accept Mendelssohn-Bartholdy)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {4. }{\fs22 Answer the following about the life of Hern\'e1n Cort\'e9s, 10 points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab Cort\'e9s launched his expedition against Mexico from this Cuban port, where he was mayor and notary.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Santiago}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab What sophisticated civilization did Cort\'e9s conquer?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Aztec}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Faced with interference from jealous colonial colleagues, Cort\'e9
s wrote a series of five impassioned letters in the 1520s to this Spanish king, who was probably too busy trying to stamp out Luther to pay much attention.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab King }{\b\ul Charles V}{ of Spain or }{\b\ul Holy Roman Emperor Charles I}{
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {5. 30-20-10, name the rock group from the following personnel:
\par }\pard\plain \qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {30pts:\tab Phil Rudd, drums
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 20pts:\tab Brian Johnson, vocals
\par }\pard\plain \qj\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {10pts:\tab Angus Young, lead guitar
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul AC/DC}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {6. Identify these female space travelers, for 10 points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {a.\tab The first woman to travel in space, she made 45 revolutions around the earth between June 16-19, 1963.  
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER: Valentina }{\b\ul Tereshkova}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {b.\tab The first American woman to travel in space, she spent 6 days in space in June 1983. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER: Sally }{\b\ul Ride}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {c.\tab The woman who holds the US space endurance record for her stay on Mir.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs20 ANSWER:  Shannon }{\b\fs20\ul Lusid}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 7. The answer to each of the following questions is an element.  10 points each if you get it on the first clue, 5 if you need more information.
\par a. 10pts: What do doctors do with their mistakes?    
\par 5pts: With atomic weight of 137.4 and atomic number 56, it is useful in visualizing the colon.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\fs22\ulw Barium}{\fs22 
\par b. 10pts: The inheritance left by your father\rquote s sister, for example.
\par 5pts: a poisonous mettalic element with  atomic number 51.  Also known as Stibium.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\fs22\ulw Antimony}{\fs22 
\par c.  (no, there aren\rquote t typos, this should be read with a corny German accent) 
\par 10pts: Wvat happens to szhips vith holes in zheir zides?
\par 5pts: Atomic number 30.  Found in forms of sunscreen.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  zhey }{\b\ulw Zinc}{ (the szhips, zhey zinc)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 
8. The Clinton impeachment debate has raised comparisons to another case in which an independent counsel investigated the President, the Iran Contra scandal.  FTPE, name the following figures in the scandal.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab This 1984 law prohibited the sale of arms or aide to Iran.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER\tab }{\b\ul Boland}{ Amendment
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab This special prosecutor was hired to investigate the Reagan administration\rquote s role in the arms deals with Iran.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Lawrence }{\b\ul Walsh}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab This head of the National Security Council authorized Oliver North to give money to the Contras.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab John }{\b\ul Poindexter}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 9. }{\fs22\cgrid0 Name the painters of the following works, 10 point each.
\par a.\tab }{\i\fs22\cgrid0 Animal Destinies}{\fs22\cgrid0 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Franz }{\b\ul Marc}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22\cgrid0 b.\tab }{\i\fs22\cgrid0 The Tempest}{\fs22\cgrid0 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:  \tab }{\b\ul Giorgione}{ or }{\b\ul Giorgio da Castelfranco}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22\cgrid0 c.\tab }{\i\fs22\cgrid0 The Sleeping Gypsy}{\fs22\cgrid0 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:  \tab Henri }{\b\ul Rousseau}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 10. Identify the following Biblical figures, for ten points per part.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab After gaining his father Isaac\rquote s blessing and his brother Esau\rquote s birthright through trickery, Jacob fled to the house of his uncle, Laban,
 where he worked for many years.  Eventually, he married two of Laban\rquote s daughters. For five points each, name them.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Leah}{ and }{\b\ul Rachel}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab Name, for 5 points each, Leah and Rachel\rquote s handmaidens, who each bore two sons to Jacob.  
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Zilpah}{ and }{\b\ul Bilhah}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Jacob\rquote 
s wives and handmaidens eventually gave birth to twelve sons altogether. They would eventually became the patriarchs of the twelve tribes of Israel. For 5 points each, name the two sons of Rachel.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Joseph}{ and }{\b\ul Benjamin}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 11. Recently, the first hand transplant in the US was performed.  For ten points each, answer the following.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab Name the recipient of the transplant, a NJ man who lost his hand in a firecracker explosion.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Matthew }{\b\ul Scott}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab Doctors at Jewish Hospital in this city performed the operation.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Louisville}{, Kentucky
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Name the doctor in charge of the operation.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Warren }{\b\ul Breidenbach}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 12. Answer the following about baseball in the past decade FTP each.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab When the Cubs won the N.L. East in 1989, they got 19 wins 
out of Greg Maddux, but they also got 18 wins, a career high by far, out of what other future Braves pitcher?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Mike }{\b\ul Bieleck}{i
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab Cincinnati\rquote 
s championship season in 1990 was keyed by a great bullpen, led by Norm Charlton, Randy Myers and Rob Dibble, who went by what collective nickname?
\par ANSWER:\tab The }{\b\fs22\ul Nasty Boys}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab In August of 1998, }{\i\fs22 Sports Illustrated}{\fs22  ran a story about this former playoff hero, who has been unable to land a major-league job since his pinch-hit single beat the Pirates and sent the Braves to the 1992 World Series.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Francisco (Frankie) }{\b\ul Cabrera}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {13. Identify these literary devices for ten points each:
\par a.\tab Condition when a character addresses another character who is not present.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul apostrophe}{\b 
\par }{b.\tab The term which denotes naming an object based on its properties. An example would be calling that jalopy you drive \ldblquote wheels.\rdblquote 
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul synecdoche}{\b 
\par }{c.\tab This word, from the Greek for \ldblquote misnomer\rdblquote , describes when an object or concept is referred to by something to which it is closely related, such as calling the Presidency the White House.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul metonymy}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 14. Answer the following questions about simple machines FTP each.
\par a. What is the name of the point at which the lever is supported?  Also the NATO name for the MiG-29.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\fs22\ulw Fulcrum}{\fs22 
\par b. Imagine an inclined plane tilted at an angle theta.  What is the force necessary to push an object of weight W up the plane?  You have 15 seconds.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\fs22\ulw W*sine theta}{\fs22  (work multiplied by the sine of theta)
\par c. This Motorolla processor powered the original Macintoshes, and variants of it continued to be produced until recently.  Give the numerical designation of this relatively simple microprocessor 
which blew the pants off of competing machines at its release.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw 68000}{ (prompt on 68k).
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {15. Conjoin the following breakfast cereal, author, and geologic formations important in paleontology.  Five points for either piece, 15 points for both.
\par a. Conjoin this popular Kellogg breakfast cereal whose ads used to feature long-legged women in swim suits, but now are using a \ldblquote Reshape Your Attitude\rdblquote  message and the layer of iridium-rich ash marking the end of the Mesozoic era.

\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Special K/T Boundary}{ (acc \ldblquote layer\rdblquote  rather than \ldblquote boundary.\rdblquote  Special K, K/T Boundary)
\par b. Conjoin the author who wrote }{\i A Clockwork Orange}{ with a fossil formation in the Canadian Rockies that has yielded over 60,000 specimens from the Cambrian period.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\fs22\ulw Anthony Burgess Shale}{\fs22  (Anthony Burgess, Burgess Shale)
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 16. Answer the following regarding the First Crusade for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab For 5, which Pope, a French nobleman and former abbot at Cluny, invoked the First Crusade?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Urban II}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab Which Byzantine emperor, threatened by the advent of the Seljuk Turks, called upon Rome to help him through a crusade?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Alexios I}{ or }{\b\ul Alexios Comnenos}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab For 5 each, name any }{\i\fs22 two }{\fs22 of the four states established in the Holy Land after the First Crusade.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Principality of }{\b\ul Antioch}{, County of }{\b\ul Edessa}{, Kingdom of }{\b\ul Jerusalem}{, County of }{\b\ul Tripoli}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 17. 30-20-10, name the English wit:
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 30:\tab Captured in France by the Nazis, he made several broadcasts from Berlin in 1941, which, though he slyly ridiculed his captors, earned him enemies in Britain.

\par 20:\tab His farcical wit found its element in his potrayal of Edwardian manners and social customs, about which he wrote for 54 years.
\par 10:\tab Though he died an American, he will forever be remembered as the creator of prig Bertie Wooster and his indefatigable \ldblquote gentleman\rquote s gentleman\rdblquote  butler Jeeves.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Pelham Grenville }{\b\ul Wodehouse}{
\par 
\par 18. }{\cf1 Answer these questions about Academy Awards, FTPE.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 a.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\cf1 
When it came time to casting the musical \ldblquote My Fair Lady\rdblquote  into a movie, the producers replaced this actress, the original Broadway Eliza Doolittle, with Audrey Hepburn.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl12\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\ilvl12\adjustright {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab Julie }{\b\ul\cf1 Andrews}{\cf1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 b.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\cf1 
However, when the Academy Awards rolled around, with \ldblquote My Fair Lady\rdblquote  earning eight academy awards, Andrews walked away with the Best Actress award, for this movie, about two children\rquote s new nanny.  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl12\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\ilvl12\adjustright {\cf1 ANWER:\tab Mary }{\b\ul\cf1 Poppins}{\cf1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 c.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {For ten points, who wrote the children\rquote 
s story }{\i Mary Poppins}{?
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab Pamela Lyndon }{\b\ul\cf1 Travers}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {19. Name the island from clues, 30-20-10.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 30:\tab Although no longer populated as extensively with these animals, its name means Island of the Wild Boars.
\par 20:\tab A popular appetizer consisting of alternating slices of mozzarella and tomato is believed to have originated there.
\par 10:\tab It is the outermost tip of the mountain chain on the Sorrentine peninsula, to which it was joined in prehistoric times.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab the Isle of }{\b\ul Capri}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 20. Identify the following relatives of Dionysius, for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab 
FTP, name his mother, who was slain by lightning when Zeus granted her request to appear before her as the in his true form, God of Thunder.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl12\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\ilvl12\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Semele}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab For five points each, name Dionysius\rquote  maternal grandparents, one the founder of Thebes and the ot
her the daughter of Aphrodite and Ares.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl12\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\ilvl12\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Cadmus }{and }{\b\ul Harmonia}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab FTP, name Dionysius\rquote 
 cousin, who tried to stop a Bacchic festival and was torn to pieces by his mother Agave and his aunts Ino and Autonoe, whom the god had blinded so that they saw him as a wild boar.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Pentheus}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {21. }{\fs22 Answer the following about characters from Tom Clancy novels for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab 
His post-Navy years are described in Without Remorse, and John Clark plays a significant role in nearly all of Clancy's books that involve Jack Ryan.  For 10 points, what was Clark's last name at the beginning of }{\i\fs22 Without Remorse}{\fs22 ?
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Kelly}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab Fingered as the force behind the nuclear attack on the United States in }{\i\fs22 The Sum of All Fears}{\fs22 
, this holy man gained power over Iran and Iraq in }{\i\fs22 Executive Orders}{\fs22  and waged germ warfare on the United States.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab Ayatolla Mahmoud Haji }{\b\fs22\ul Daryei}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab This man, a former vice president and governor from California, offered Jack Ryan the vice presidency in }{\i\fs22 
Debt of Honor}{\fs22 .  Then he died before Ryan was confirmed.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Roger }{\b\ul Durling}{
\par 
\par }{\cf1 Answer these questions about Academy Awards, FTPE.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 d.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\cf1 
When it came time to casting the musical \ldblquote My Fair Lady\rdblquote  into a movie, the producers replaced this actress, the original Broadway Eliza Doolittle, with Audrey Hepburn.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl12\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\ilvl12\adjustright {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab Julie }{\b\ul\cf1 Andrews}{\cf1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22\cf1 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 e.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {\cf1 
However, when the Academy Awards rolled around, with \ldblquote My Fair Lady\rdblquote  earning eight academy awards, Andrews walked away with the Best Actress award, for this movie, about two children\rquote s new nanny.  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl12\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\ilvl12\adjustright {\cf1 ANWER:\tab Mary }{\b\ul\cf1 Poppins}{\cf1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 f.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {For ten points, who wrote the children\rquote 
s story }{\i Mary Poppins}{.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab Pamela Lyndon }{\b\ul\cf1 Travers}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 22. Given a description, identify the economist for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab For 5, he wrote }{\i\fs22 The Wealth of Nations}{\fs22  in 1776.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Adam }{\b\ul Smith}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab For 10, this American wrote }{\i\fs22 The Theory of the Leisure Class}{\fs22  and coined the phrase \ldblquote conspicuous consumption.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 ANSWER:\tab Thorstein }{\b\f0\ul Veblen}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab He gained interest in economics after reading Adam Smith, and his laissez-faire doctrines were typified in his Iron Law
 of Wages, which stated that all attempts to improve the real income of workers were futile and that wages perforce remained near the subsistence level.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab David }{\b\ul Ricardo}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {23. Given a general equation, give the conic section it describes centered at the origin FTP each.
\par a. Square root of the quantity x squared plus y squared equals a constant.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Circle }{
\par b. x squared over a squared plus y squared over b squared equals a constant.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Ellipse }{
\par c. x squared over a squared minus y squared over b squared equals a constant.
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Hyperbola}{
\par }}