{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\ul\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 
header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright 
\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext20 Bonus First Line;}{\s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext21 Bonus Part;}{\s22\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext22 Plain Text;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid67698709
\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc3\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid276914039}{\list\listtemplateid67698709\listsimple{\listlevel
\levelnfc3\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid700936424}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid276914039
\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid700936424\listoverridecount0\ls2}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator Ramin Fatehi}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy5\hr23\min37}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy5\hr23\min37}{\printim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr17\min12}{\version2}
{\edmins0}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords3487}{\nofchars19877}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws24410}{\vern113}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd 
\sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round X.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 3}}}
{ of 7
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 10: TOSSUPS}{\fs24 

\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VIII. }{\fs24 Round 10.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24  PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\fs24\lang1024 2}}}{\fs24  of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs19\fs24  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\cs19\fs24\lang1024 1}}}{\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1999 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {1. In this city, Lower Wacker Drive and its sidewalk heating grates have been a refuge for the homeless almost since it was completed 1926. This Midwestern municipality has been trying t
o move the homeless out of the catacomb-like lower depths under the city streets for nearly that long. FTP name this city where store owners have begun to lock the homeless out of their longtime homes, despite the protests of Windy City historian Studs Te
rkel and others.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Chicago}{, Illinois 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {2. Canonized in 1083, forty-five years after his death, he was noted for his propagation of Christianity and the suppression of paganism in his country. Founder of the \'c1rp\'e1d dynasty, he was crowned king in 1001 o
r 1002. FTP, name this first king and patron saint of Hungary.
\par ANSWER:\tab Saint }{\b\ul Stephen}{ or }{\b\ul Stephen I}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {3. He has a degree in chemical engineering from Georgia Tech, and scouts suggest that his hard sinker may be the toughest pitch in baseball. He varies arm an
gles, and his pitches dart all over the place. This was never more obvious than Game One of the National League Divisional Playoffs, when he struck out 16 batters in 8 innings. FTP name this pitcher who recently signed a 105 million dollar contract with t
he Los Angeles Dodgers.
\par ANSWER:\tab Kevin }{\b\ul Brown}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {4. This number was the California proposition aimed to curtail illegal immigration. Oddly enough, it is also is mentioned in the song \ldblquote April 29, 1992 (Miami)\rdblquote 
 by Sublime. Sublime, however, was using it in the same sense as the folks who chose the title for a movie that stars Samuel L. Jackson as a high school teacher. FTP tell me the three digit police code for homicide.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul 187}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {5. He's old, he's cranky, he's brilliant, he's rumored to be not a little bit cra
zy, and he's taught at Yale since 1955! He is one of the most renowned literary critics of our time, focusing chiefly on Romantic authors and Shakespeare, but he has also branched out as far as the Bible in the controversial work }{\i The Book of J}{
. His 1998 book, }{\i Shakespeare: The Invention of the Human}{, has been even more controversial, claiming that the world as we know it would not exist if not for Shakespeare and his works. FTP, name this author of }{\i The Western Canon}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab Harold }{\b\ul Bloom}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {6. Born in Linden, 
Alabama, in 1926, he was a Baptist minister and civil rights leader who was frequently jailed with Martin Luther King, Jr. for acts of civil disobedience. FTP, name this man, who, along with King, founded the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, and 
who took over its leadership after King\rquote s assassination in 1968.
\par ANSWER\tab  Ralph David }{\b\ul Abernathy}{
\par 
\par 7. Born in London, she married Prince George of Denmark in 1683. Her reign saw the uniting of the kingdoms of Britain and Scotland, as well as the War of Spanish Succession. FTP, name this second daughter of James II and the last of the Stuart monarchs. 

\par ANSWER:\tab Queen }{\b\ul Anne}{ 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 8. His name is from the Sanskrit for \ldblquote auspicious one.\rdblquote  His family, including his elephant-headed son Ganesh, is said to dwell on Mount Kaila
sa in the Himalayas. He brought the Ganges River to the Earth by allowing her to trickle through his hair, thus breaking her fall. And his mount and animal image is the bull, Nandi. FTP identify this contradictory Hindu god who is both the restorer and de
stroyer.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Shiva}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 
9. Incorporated in 1857, this midwestern city, located across Carter Lake from Council Bluffs, boasts a population of about 360,000. Suburbs include Ralston and Papillon, and the city is also home to a minor league affiliate of the K
ansas City Royals. FTP, name this city, the largest in Nebraska.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Omaha}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {10. He is also known as Damastes or Polypemon and he lived on the route from Eleusis to Athens. He was the owner of a bed on which he would force his victims to lie, stretching
 them out if they were too short and cutting off their limbs if they were too tall. FTP, name this man, whom Theseus eventually forced to lie in this same bed. 
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Procrustes}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 11. Mrs. Whatsit, Mrs. Who, and Mrs. Which take the heroes to a two-dimensi
onal planet by mistake, then introduce them to the Happy Medium. Mr. Murry is held prisoner on Camazotz by the disembodied brain known as It. Teenagers Meg and Calvin and five-year-old Charles Wallace save the day. FTP, all these events occur in what chil
dren\rquote s classic by Madeline L\rquote Engle?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\i A }{\b\i\ul Wrinkle in Time}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 12. Her fame as an English writer may be slightly overshadowed by the fame of her second daughter\rquote 
s, but she was noted as a passionate advocate of educational and social equality for women. Her early }{\i\f0 Thoughts on the Education of Daughters }{\f0 
written in 1787 foreshadowed her mature work on woman's place in society. FTP, name this author of the 1972 work, }{\i\f0 Vindication of the Rights of Woman.}{\f0  
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Mary }{\b\ul Wollstonecraft}{ Godwin
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {13. }{\cf1 This constellation c
onsists of 4 giant, bright stars between 200 and 500 light years away which include Acrux, Gamma Crucis, Mimosa (Beta) and Delta Crucis. Seafarers once crossed themselves when looking at its region of the Milky Way, one of the brightest parts and also hom
e to a set of dark clouds called the Coal Sack. FTP, name this constellation, also the name of a series in the Robotech universe. \line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw\cf1 Southern Cross}{\cf1  or }{\b\ulw\cf1 Southern Crux}{\cf1  
\par }{
\par 14. He attended Dartmouth College and lived in La Jolla, California nearly all his adult life. He produced two documentaries with his wife, }{\i Hitler Lives}{ and }{\i Design for Death,}{
 both of which won Oscars. He wrote columns and drew illustrations for }{\i Life}{ and }{\i Vanity Fair,}{ and he founded the publishing house Beginner Books, but his fame lies in his classic children\rquote s tales. FTP, name this author of }{\i 
Yertle, the Turtle}{ and }{\i Hop on Pop.}{
\par ANSWER:\tab Theodore }{\b\ul Geisel}{ or Dr.}{\b  }{\b\ul Seuss}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {15. After his father\rquote s death, he aimed to take over his tribe. Even though his faction only numbered 1500, his iron-handed rule
, violent tactics, and innovative short spear carried him far. In 2 years he had the most powerful clan in the region now known as South Africa. His mother\rquote 
s 1827 death drove him insane, and in an effort to save the kingdom, two of his half brothers and a military officer murdered him. FTP, name this famous Zulu king.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Shaka}{ or }{\b\ul Chaka}{ Zulu
\par 
\par \page 16. This songwriter, dubbed the first in the U.S., developed his skills early as he studied with renowned Pittsburgh music teacher Henry Kleber. His lyrics for hi
s early minstrel show songs described sad life on antebellum southern plantations. FTP, name this man, who remained poor despite hits like "Camptown Races" and "Old Black Joe."
\par ANSWER:\tab Stephen }{\b\ul Foster}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {17. This element is soft and silvery-white, named for the two red lines in its spectrum. It is the second most reactive metal and has an atomic number of 37. Used in photoelectric cells and electron tubes, you\rquote 
d be a country bumpkin if you couldn\rquote t name this atom, FTP, abbreviated Rb.\line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Rubidium}{
\par 
\par 18. Recently appearing on Conan O\rquote Brian in late 1998, this actor has played roles in }{\i The Usual Suspects}{ and }{\i A Few Good Men}{
. A former stand up comic, he has been successful in a large number of dramatic roles, although he was featured as a presidential advisor in the straight to video }{\i Canadian Bacon}{
. Name, FTP, this famed William Shatner and Christopher Walken impressionist.
\par ANSWER:\tab Kevin }{\b\ul Pollak}{
\par 
\par 19. This major influence on modern architecture, theater design, and graphic and industrial arts was founded by Walter 
Gropius in 1919. It exists in accordance with the ideas of the Arts and Crafts movement and of English designer William Morris, namely that art, with no distinction between fine arts and practical crafts, should meet society's needs. FTP, name this German
 school of design, after which a functionalist, anti-ornamentational style is named.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Bauhaus}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {20. This magazine is described as "a daring, distinctive magazine for men who are passionate about adventure, style, music, fashion, sports, politics, humo
r, and pop culture. Each issue will satisfy all your passions." No, it isn't }{\i Playboy}{, so name, FTP, this magazine, whose February issue features the "shagadelic" Elizabeth Hurley sans brassiere.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Details}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {21. }{\cf1 To find a zero of a function, it may be 
useful to utilize this technique, applicable when a function is continuous and differentiable on an interval and not equal to zero in a neighborhood of 0. Developed by a famous physicist, it entails subtracting the quotient of f of x and f prime of x from
 x to find the next term in a convergent series.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw\cf1 Newton\rquote s Method}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {22. }{\cf1 Developed in 1984 by Cambridge biochemist Cesar Milstein, who won part of a Nobel prize, this is a technique for making exactly identical antibodies both outside and inside the b
ody. Their name comes from the fact that they all come from the same B-cell clone. They are generally produced by myeloma tumors, but their name sounds a bit like a plot for a bad sci-fi movie. \tab \line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw\cf1 Monoclonal }{\cf1 
antibodies
\par }{
\par 23. Through his research, he tried to find an answer to the question \ldblquote how does knowledge grow?\rdblquote 
 He saw the growth of knowledge as a progressive construction of logically embedded structures succeeding one another in an inclusion process of lower, less powerful logical means into higher and more powerful ones up to adulthood. Therefore children
\rquote s logical processes and modes of thinking differed completely from those of adults. FTP, name this famous Swiss psychologist who wrote }{\i The Child and Reality }{and }{\i Equilibration of Cognitive Structures.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Jean }{\b\ul Piaget }{
\par }{\fs24 \page \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 10: BONI}{\fs24 
\par \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {1. Yale\rquote s quiz bowl team recently took a series of personality tests. Identify the tests from clues FTP each. Abbreviations can be acceptable answers.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Ass
istant Tournament Director Victor scored normal in seven of the ten major scales on this test, but was abnormal in the hypomania, psychopathic deviate, and conversion hysteria scales.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul MMPI}{ (or }{\b\ul Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory}{)
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab Since T
ournament Director Ramin was judged more normal than Victor, he was given this test specifically designed for "normal" people, on which he scored normally on scales such as tolerance, self-control, and flexibility.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul CPI}{ (or }{\b\ul California Psychological Inventory}{)
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Stat-master Jim, the sanest of the bunch, was judged to be an INTJ according to this scheme.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Meyers-Briggs}{ (or }{\b\ul MBPI}{ or equivalent)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {2. Answer these questions relating to the Korean War FTPE.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Once president of the Korean government-
in-exile in Hawaii while Korea was under Japanese rule, he became president of South Korea in 1948. Later, civil strife and growing opposition to this man persuaded Kim Il Sung to attempt the reunification of Korea.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright \fs22 {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab Syngman }{\b\ul\cf1 Rhee}{\cf1 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab UN forces captured P\rquote 
yongyang in October of 1950. Continuing to push the North Koreans back, they crossed this river, which forms the border between China and North Korea, despite China\rquote s repeated warnings.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright \fs22 {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul\cf1 Yalu}{\cf1  River
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Truman relieved General MacArthur of his command after he publicly advocated a very aggressive military strategy that differed from the president\rquote s policies. Name MacArthur
\rquote s successor.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab Matthew }{\b\ul\cf1 Ridgway}{\cf1 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {3. Named after John Newbery, the famous 18th century British publisher and bookseller, t
he Newbery Medal is presented annually by the Association of Library Service to Children. Given the books for which they won the medal, identify these authors for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab }{\i The View From Saturday}{ (1997) and }{\i From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler}{ (1968)
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qj\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \fs20\ul\cgrid {\fs22\ulnone ANSWER:\tab E. L. }{\b\fs22 Konigsburg}{\fs22\ulnone 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab }{\i Jacob Have I Loved}{ (1981) and }{\i Bridge to Terabithia}{ (1978)
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qj\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \fs20\ul\cgrid {\fs22\ulnone ANSWER:\tab Katherine }{\b\fs22 Paterson}{\fs22\ulnone 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab }{\i The Bronze Bow}{ (1962) and }{\i The Witch of Blackbird Pond}{ (1959)
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Elizabeth George }{\b\ul Speare}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cf1 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {4. Do you like the moon? Not that anyone cares, this isn't a personality test, but it }{\i is}{
 Quiz Bowl. This is where everyone starts groaning because this bonus has something to do with moons. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {a.\tab For 5 points, name the person who sang "Moondance."
\par ANSWER:\tab Van }{\b\ul Morrison}{
\par b.\tab For 10 points, give the author of the book }{\i The Moon and the Sixpence}{. 
\par ANSWER:\tab William Somerset }{\b\ul Maugham}{
\par c.\tab For 10 points, name the unnatural group who first sang the lines, "When the moon is in the seventh house, and Jupiter aligns with Mars\'85."
\par ANSWER:\tab The }{\b\ul Fifth Dimension}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {5. Few people realize the conspiracy to irradiate the nation. Answer the following questions about the Government\rquote 
s highly inefficient and hopelessly inane plan to give cancer of the appendix to every man, woman, child, and extraterrestrial through \ldblquote Exit\rdblquote  signs and flatware.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab FFP, this unit of activity is equivalent to 2.22 times 10 to the 12th disintegrations per minute.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ul curie}{ (Ci)
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab Some green \ldblquote Exit\rdblquote  signs contain up to 1 curie of a radioactive isotope. It is of such low activity that i
t cannot be picked up on a standard Geiger counter, but such large quantities can be hazardous. Name it FTP. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw tritium}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab In the past, some companies have gone to extremes for style, including using a radioactive element in a glaze because of its n
ice color. FTP, what is the brand name of this now discontinued line of table settings?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Fiestaware}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {d.\tab What radioactive element did the orange variety of Festivaware use because of the vibrant color it provided?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw uranium
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {6. Identify these successive Holy Roman Emperors, FTPE.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab 
Charles the VI of the Hapsburg line died in 1740, and since his daughter, as a woman, could not be elected Holy Roman Emperor, the rule of the Empire and Austria were divided. Name this man, who became King of Bohem
ia in 1741 and was elected as the only Holy Roman emperor of the Bavarian line in 1742.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright \fs22 {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul\cf1 Charles VII}{\cf1 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab After Charles VII\rquote s death in 1745, the Electors picked the husband of Maria Theresa to take his place. Name this man, the only Holy Roman Emperor of the Lorraine line.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright \fs22 {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul\cf1 Francis I}{\cf1 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab 
After Francis died in 1765, his son was elected Holy Roman Emperor, thus beginning the Hapsburg-Lorraine Line. When Maria Theresa died in 1780, the titles of Holy Roman Empire and King of Austria were once again 
united under one sovereign. Name this son of Francis I and Maria Theresa.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul\cf1 Joseph II}{\cf1 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {
\par 7. For 15 points each, identify the tree from the Greek myth.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Carya, the daughter of a Laconian king, was a beloved of Dionysus. When she suddenly died, the mournful god turned her into this tree.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul walnut}{ tree
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab 
When Troy fell, Phyllis, a Thracian princess, awaited the return of her lover Acamas. While all the other Athenian ships arrived, Acamas was a no-show, and grief-stricken Phyllis died after her ni
nth fruitless visit to the shore. Athena took pity and turned her into this tree, which, when Acamas returned the next day and embraced its bark, demonstrated its peculiarity of bursting into flower instead of leaf.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul almond}{ tree
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {8. Name the following figures with regards to California\rquote s Proposition 209 for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab For 5, this then-governor of California supported the initiative.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Pete }{\b\ul Wilson}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab For 10, this black Sacramento businessman and University of California regent led the battle for Prop 209.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Ward }{\b\ul Connerly}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab For 15, Senate Republicans refused to nominate this man in 1997 and 1998 for the position of Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights because he\rquote 
d said Prop 209 was unconstitutional.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Bill }{\b\ul Lee}{
\par \page 9. Answer these related questions, for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Identify the Russian poet whose novel }{\i Doctor Zhivago}{ aroused so much opposition in the Soviet Union that he declined the 1958 Nobel Prize for Literature
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Boris }{\b\ul Pasternak}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {b.\tab Name the actor and chess-player who played Yuri in the 1965 movie adaptation of }{\i Doctor Zhivago}{, directed by David Lean. 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Omar }{\b\ul Sharif}{ (accept Michael Shalhoub)
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Name the actress who played Lara in the same movie.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Julie }{\b\ul Christie}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {10. In the recent Hous
e vote to impeach President Clinton, the congressmen kept mostly to party lines, with only a handful of dissenters going against the "Republicans for", "Democrats against" grain. For ten points each, answer these questions about the defectors.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Two of the 4 Republicans who voted against impeachment, Amo Houghton and Peter King, hail from this state. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul New York}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab Two of the 5 Democrats who broke ranks, Charles Stenholm and Ralph Hall, come from this state, indicating the more conservative bent of the traditional "Southern Democrat." 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Texas}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab 
There is one Independent congressman in the House, Bernard Sanders, and he voted against impeachment--not surprising considering he represents a state perceived as extremely liberal. Name it. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Vermont}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {11. For 15 points each, identify the following Ibsen plays given a brief description.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab In this play, Nora Helmer leaves her husband Torvald and their three children after an old fraud she committed is revealed.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul A Doll\rquote s House}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab Dr. Stockman is a medical officer who discovers that the water in his town\rquote s public baths is contaminated and publicly reveals this information despite much opposition.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul An Enemy of the People}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {12. I'm watching an NCAA game between FSU and Princeton. Sorry, 
sports fans--this is NOT a sports question. Princeton is leading by four, and we just cut to some commercials. For the stated number of points, tell me what's being pitched, given its description.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab For 5 points: They let you call anywhere in the U.S. for 99 cents for the first 20 minutes, then ten cents a minute after that.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Telecom USA}{ or }{\b\ul 10-10-220}{
\par }\pard \fi720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {(do not accept MCI, although they own Telecom USA. It's not shown in the ad.)
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab For 10 points: They give you unlimited phone support, and also throw i
n a free Lexmark printer! On the computer monitor shown, there's this black and white cow pattern...I wonder what that means?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Gateway 2000}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab For 15 points: Workers at this magazine are giving away duffel bags to new subscribers. The issues are only a dollar each, so call 1-800-540-1155 to order now.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab The }{\b\ul ESPN}{ Magazine
\par 
\par \page 13. Given the fundamental constant used in science, give its name for 10 points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab 96485.309 Coulombs per mol
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Faraday}{ Constant
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab 9.1093897x10}{\super -31}{ kg
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Electron Mass}{ (acc. Equivalents)
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab 6.626075 Joules per second
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Planck\rquote s}{ Constant
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {14. }{\cgrid0 Art can be beautiful, but for some it can also be offensive. For ten points each, name\'85
\par a.\tab The artist whose homoerotic photography was attacked by Jesse Helms. The artist later died of AIDS.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Robert }{\b\ul Mapplethorpe}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 b.\tab His }{\i\cgrid0 Piss Christ}{\cgrid0  and }{\i\cgrid0 Cabeza de Vaca}{\cgrid0  followed in the footsteps of Mapplethorpe's shock-value photography
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Andres }{\b\ul Serrano}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 c.\tab He began the use of scatological references in art with his work }{\i\cgrid0 Fountain}{\cgrid0 , which was actually a urinal signed \ldblquote R. Mutt.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Marcel }{\b\ul Duchamp}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 15. We all know that Bernoulli\rquote s principle explains how airplanes fly, but how are you on the details?
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab FTP, in what century did Daniel Bernoulli live?
\par }\pard\plain \s22\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\fs22\ulw \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 18th}{\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0  (1700s)
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab FTP, what was Bernoulli\rquote s nationality?
\par }\pard\plain \s22\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\fs22\ulw \hich\af0\dbch\af4\loch\f0 Swiss}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab FTP, give the numerical designation for the US\rquote s stealthy flying-wing boondoggle bomber which relies on Bernoulli\rquote s principle (and lots of computers) to fly. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw B-2}{ Spirit (DNA \ldblquote stealth fighter,\rdblquote  prompt on \ldblquote stealth bomber\rdblquote )
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {16. Pencil and paper ready. Billy throws an unconscious penguin from a height of 1 meter at 24 m/s, at an upward angle of 30 degrees. Assume the acceleration due to gravity to be 10 m/s, and no air resistance. For fifteen 
points each, calculate how far away from Billy the penguin lands, rounded to the nearest meter; also calculate the amount of time the penguin is in flight, rounded to the nearest tenth of a second. You have 30 seconds.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul 52 meters,}{ }{\b\ul 2.5 seconds}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {17. For 15 points each, identify the 18th century philosophers with similarly titled works.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Also known as the bishop of Cloyne, he wrote}{\i  Principles of Human Knowledge}{ and }{\i The Three Dialogues}{ where he assumes Philonous's voice and convinces Hylas that unthink
ing passive objects exist insofar as active thinking beings perceive them.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab George }{\b\ul Berkeley}{ (pronounced \ldblquote bar-clay,\rdblquote  but be generous)
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab He wrote }{\i An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding}{ and furthered British Empiricism, asserting that "causes and effects are discoverable, not by reason but by experience."

\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab David }{\b\ul Hume}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {
\par \page 18. For fifteen points each, answer these related questions on African literature.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab This language, in which some of the most famous African literature is written, was first d
eveloped by Bishop Ajayi Craither. Its most important writer, Daniel Olorunfemi Fagunwa, used it in commending Christian virtue in the public. FTP, name this language, whose first fiction work was }{\i Segilola of the Seductive Eyes}{ in 1929.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Yoruba}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab A member of the Yoruba people, he published his first play, }{\i A Dance of the Forests}{\ul  }{
was produced for the Nigerian independence celebrations in 1963. He was first educated in his homeland, but then graduated from the University of Leeds in England.  His }{\i The Lion and the Jewel}{
 is a satire of westernized schoolteachers. For ten points, name this author, the first black African to be awarded the Nobel Prize for literature. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Wole }{\b\ul Soyinka}{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {19. You might now the most recent Triple Crown winners, but can you name the first three? For a big thirty points, ten points for each one, name those horses.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Sir Barton}{ (1919), }{\b\ul Gallant Fox}{ (1930), }{\b\ul Omaha}{ (1935)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {20. Three years ago, the Million Man March brought thousands of black men to Washington. Answer the following questions about its key figures.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab For 5 points, this Nation of Islam head was the main organizer of the March.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Louis }{\b\ul Farrakhan}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab For 10, this former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff missed the March while on his book tour.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Colin }{\b\ul Powell}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab For 15, this man was one of the head organizers of the March, despite having been fired as NAACP executive director the previous year.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Benjamin }{\b\ul Chavis}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {21. 30-20-10, give the work:
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {30:\tab Its first 32 cantos were compiled in 1835, and 18 
more were added in 1850. It was written in a pattern of unrhymed octosyllabic trochees and dactyls that bear its name. It has inspired such varied artists as Sibelius and Longfellow.
\par 20:\tab It recounts the exploits of the old king V\'e4in\'e4m\'f6inen and other characters such as the smith Ilmarinen and the slave-king Kullervo in \ldblquote the land of heroes.\rdblquote 
\par 10:\tab It is the national epic of Finland, largely responsible for arousing Finnish nationalism and reinforcing the Finnish language in the 19}{\super th}{ century.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab The }{\b\i\ul Kalevala}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\page 22. Plug your ears and start answering these questions on atonal and twelve-tone classical music figures FTPE.
\par a.\tab Born in Vienna in 1883, he became a private pupil of Arnold Schoenberg in 1904. His explorations helped establish \ldblquote atonality\rdblquote  as a valid
 musical concept. He died in 1945, accidentally shot by an American soldier. His major works include his }{\i Symphony}{, Opus 21, }{\i Das Augenlicht}{ and }{\i Passacaglia}{, Opus 1.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Anton Friedrich Ernst von }{\b\ul Webern}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab His first opera }{\i Soeur B\'e9atrice}{ premiered in 1919. One of the first conductors to perform Berg and Shoenberg\rquote 
s works, his original works remain obscure, and he is better known as a pioneering musical director who conducted from memory and led concerts and rehearsals without score. He made his mark with l
eading groups like the Berlin State Opera, the New York Philharmonic and the Metropolitan Opera. He died in Milan in 1960.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Dimitri }{\b\ul Mitropoulos}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab This composer recently held a press conference to declare he was from Sirius B. Known for his vast mus
ical experiments, he wrote integral serialist music based on mathematical principles in his early years. He quickly discarded such confinements to experiment in improvisation, drugs and electronic music. His famous works include }{\i Stimmung}{ and }{\i 
Zeitmasse}{. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Karlheinz }{\b\ul Stockhausen}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {23. Rank the following countries in order of population (as of 12/28/98) from highest to lowest for 5 points each, plus 5 for all correct: Italy, Poland, Turkey, Angola, Pakistan.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\f0\ul Pakistan}{\f0  (138.1m), }{\b\f0\ul Turkey}{\f0  (65.6m), }{\b\f0\ul Italy}{\f0  (56.7m), }{\b\f0\ul Poland}{\f0  (38.6m), }{\b\f0\ul Angola}{\f0  (11.2m)
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }}