{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\ul\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 
header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s20\widctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\adjustright \f2\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Preformatted;}{\s21\qj\widctlpar\adjustright \b\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext21 Body Text 3;}{\s22\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid 
\sbasedon0 \snext22 Plain Text;}{\s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext23 Bonus Part;}{\s24\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext24 Bonus First Line;}{\s25\widctlpar\tx525\adjustright \fs20\cf1\cgrid 
\sbasedon0 \snext25 Body Text 2;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid67698709\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc3\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }
{\listname ;}\listid171578576}{\list\listtemplateid67698709\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc3\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname 
;}\listid725878402}{\list\listtemplateid67698709\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc3\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid733940199}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid725878402\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid171578576\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid733940199\listoverridecount0\ls3}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator Ramin Fatehi}
{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy5\hr23\min37}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy5\hr23\min37}{\printim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr17\min11}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords3416}{\nofchars19473}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws23914}{\vern113}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i 
Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round X.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 3}}}{ of 7
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1999 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.}{
\par }}{\headerf \pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }}{\footerf \pard\plain \s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 8: TOSSUPS}{\fs24 

\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round 8.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\lang1024 2}}}{ of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs19\fs24  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\cs19\fs24\lang1024 1}}}{
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1999 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.}{
\par }}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 1.}{\f0\cgrid0 
 His clubfoot forced him into church life, and as bishop of Autun he worked first for and then against church prerogatives. Resigning his position to pursue a life in politics, he serve
d as French foreign minister under four different regimes, including two Bourbons, one Republic, and one Bonaparte. FTP, name this Frenchman, most notorious for his ideological reversals and his involvement in the XYZ affair.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Charles Maurice de }{\b\ul Talleyrand}{-Perigord, Prince de Benevent
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 2. Its major characters include Turkey, Nippers, Ginger Nut, and an unnamed narrator who employs the title character. \ldblquote I would prefer not to\rdblquote 
 is the mantra of the title figure of this classic short story. For ten points, name this Herman Melville tale about a self-destructive legal clerk.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER: \tab \ldblquote }{\b\ul Bartleby the Scrivener}{\rdblquote 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 3. Venice, London, San Francisco, Toronto, and Athens are some of the lesser known ones, as they\rquote re not around anymore. Ones that are still with us i
nclude New York, Chicago, Geneva, Helvetica, and Times. FTP, name these things, which have a special home in the System Folder and represent various typefaces.\line ANSWER:\tab  original }{\b\fs22\ulw Macintosh Fonts}{\fs22  (acc. \ldblquote Mac
\rdblquote  for Macintosh, and \ldblquote Macintosh typefaces\rdblquote  before it is given in the question. Prompt on \ldblquote font\rdblquote  with \ldblquote more specific, please\rdblquote ).
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 4. A painter, poet, writer, and politician, this French Romanticist was a member of the Constituent Assembly before his opposition to Napoleon III got him exiled. He spent most of 
his exile on the isles of Jersey and Guernsey, to the former of which he dedicated the novel }{\i\f0 The Toilers of the Sea}{\f0 . Other works of the time include }{\i\f0 Napoleon Le Petit}{\f0 , and the first volume }{\i\f0 
of The Legends of the Centuries}{\f0 . FTP, name this author, creator of Jean Valjean.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Victor-Marie }{\b\ul Hugo}{
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qj\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \fs20\ul\cgrid {\fs22\ulnone 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22 {
5. Commitment to customer enthusiasm, commitment to excel, teamwork, trust and respect for the individual. Continuous improvement. These elements are all part of the mission statement of a company based in Spring Hi
ll, Tennessee. With early commercials emphasizing their \ldblquote different\rdblquote 
 philosophy in the auto industry, a more recent one depicts a student ordering one of their cars on the Internet. FTP identify this General Motors subsidiary that has innovated a three-door coupe.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Saturn}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
6. When China was under Mongol rule, members of this group were discriminated against and kept from holding public-service jobs. But they later overcame this oppression in fine form, establishing a dynasty that re-introduced Confuci
anism and invented paper and porcelain. FTP, name this longest-ruling Chinese dynasty.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Han}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 7. It can refer to a separation technique in organic chemistry, a premium cable channel, a nursing philosophy, and a Grammy-nominated singing group. The sep
aration technique separates substances that have differing polarities. The channel\rquote s programming is mainly non-fiction and educational. The nursing philosophy advocates compassion over technical detachment. The singing group tells us to \ldblquote 
stick to the rivers and the lakes that we\rquote re used to.\rdblquote  FTP, what is this 3 letter acronym?\line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\fs22\ulw TLC}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \s22\fi720\li720\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 (Thin-Layer Chromatography, The Learning Channel, Tender Loving Care, and TLC)
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 8. He detailed the main events of his life in an autobiographical poem called }{\i Tristia}{, meaning \ldblquote Sorrows\rdblquote  in Latin. Born in 43BC as a member of the knightly class, this man\rquote 
s works include "The Amores", "Ars Amatoria" and "Fasti." He gained great fame during his time for his sharp wit, but, for unknown reasons, perhaps because of his possible involvement in a scandal concerning Augustus\rquote 
 daughter Julia, the emperor exiled this man to a safe but unhappy life in Tomis in 8 CE. For ten points, name this Roman poet, whose most famous work is }{\i the Metamorphoses}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Ovid}{ or }{\b\ul Publius Ovidius Naso
\par }{
\par 9. He holds the distinction of having a #1 song on the Billboard charts in three different decades. Born Marvin Lee Adair, he is also one of the most obese rock stars, once weighing over 300 pounds. His latest album is entitled }{\i 
Welcome to the Neighborhood}{. For ten points, name this famous musician who recorded }{\i Bat out of Hell}{.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Meatloaf}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {10. He was born a son of a pastor and philologist on July 26, 1875, in a city called Kesswil. He was educated in Universities of Basel and Zurich. A believer in, amon
g other things, ESP, telekinesis and telepathy and the collective unconscious, he wrote up his theories famous works like }{\i Man and His Symbols}{ and }{\i Symbols of Transformation}{
. For ten points, name this famous Swiss psychologist and psychiatrist, a former colleague of Freud\rquote s and the founder of analytic psychology.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {Answer:\tab Carl }{\b\ul Jung}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {11. This man\rquote s father, Nicomachus, was court physician to the King of Macedonia. His father died shortly thereafter, making him the ward of Proxenus. His philosophy shows a scienti
fic bent, and the basics of medicine and science were taught at the Lyceum he founded. Breaking off from his teacher, he emphasized the different functions of philosophers and kings. FTP identify this man who was a student at Plato\rquote 
s Academy and tutor of Alexander the Great 
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Aristotle}{
\par 
\par 12. Born in Kim Lien village, this son of a poor scholar lived in France for 6 years, where he got increasingly involved with his home country\rquote s independence movement. His calls for independence were rebuffed at the 1
919 Versailles conference and he moved back to Indochina and founded a successful communist party to rebel against the French. After fighting the Japanese in World War II, his battles continued against the French and then later the Americans. He died in H
anoi in 1969. FTP, name this man, the founder of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Ho}{ Chi Minh (accept Nguyen Sinh Cung, Nguyen Tat Thanh, or Nguyen Ai Quoc)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {13. This disease causing agent is neither a bacteria, a virus, or a fungi. In fact, it doesn\rquote 
t appear in any taxonomical kingdom. It causes kuru in humans and scrapie in animals, among other things. Its funny to think that a slight conformational change in a protein could yield this deadly agent that crippled the UK\rquote 
s beef industry. FTP, name this causitive agent of mad cow disease.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw prion}{ (PREE-on, but be generous)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {14. In 1898, this place was the target of General Shafter's troops as they marched to Santiago during the invasion of Cuba. This was one of the most fiercely fought battle
s of the Spanish-American war, and became the stuff of legend after the Americans advanced, led by Teddy Roosevelt\rquote s Rough Riders, and forced the Spanish out. FTP, name the site.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul San Juan Hill}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {15. Although Henry Hudson discovered it in 1610, it i
s named for a different English explorer. Eight rivers flow into this large lake, while mainly Native Americans populate the surrounding land. FTP, name this southern extension of Hudson Bay, lying between Quebec and Ontario.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0\cgrid0 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\f0\ul\cgrid0 James}{\f0\cgrid0  Bay}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22 {
\par 16. This ma
n is suspected to have watched Officer Robert Sanderson as he leaned over to inspect what appeared to be a potted plant in Birmingham, Alabama. Hundreds of agents searched mountainous regions of North Carolina in search of him, but he remains at large des
pite a one million dollar ransom offered by the FBI. FTP identify this man who is wanted for three bombings in the Atlanta area, including one during the 1996 Summer Olympics.
\par ANSWER:\tab Eric }{\b\ul Rudolph}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {17. An American painter and etcher who assimilated Japanese
 art styles and championed modern art, he did much of his work in England, where he became friends with Dante Gabriel Rosetti and Oscar Wilde. FTP, name this artist, whose works include }{\i Nocturne in Black and Gold: The Falling Rocket}{, }{\i 
Symphony in White No. 1: The White Girl}{, and }{\i Arrangement in Grey and Black, Portrait of the Artist's Mother}{. 
\par ANSWER:\tab James Abbott McNeill }{\b\ul Whistler}{
\par 
\par 18. This allegorical theme, spawned by 14th- and 15th- century wars and plagues, came from the belief that skeletons rose from th
eir graves to lure the living into fatal jigs. FTP, name this theme which inspired painter Holbein the Younger and composer Camille Saint-Saens.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul danse macabre}{ or }{\b\ul dance of death}{ or }{\b\ul totentanz}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 19. This isoprenoid has an empirical formula of C-ten H-t
wenty Oh. It is crystalline and possesses a strong odor. It is extracted from the Japanese mint plant and is used in cosmetics and flavorings and a familiar drug delivery vehicle. FTP, give the common name for Peppermint Camphor which is put into cigarett
es to add a cooling, minty flavor to them.\line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\fs22\ulw Menthol}{\fs22  (acc \ldblquote peppermint camphor\rdblquote  on an early buzz)
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {20.\tab He won his heavyweight title by beating Jess Willard and earned boxing\rquote s first million-dollar audience when he beat Georges Carpentier. However, he 
is perhaps most famous for his failed rematch with the man who took his title, Gene Tunney. FTP, identify this 1920's boxer, the Manassa Mauler, who was beaten by Tunney in the infamous \ldblquote Long Count\rdblquote  fight.\line ANSWER:\tab Jack }{
\b\ul Dempsey}{\line 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {21. It was in his first novel, 1958's }{\i Where the Air is Clear}{
, that this Mexican writer introduced his trademark experimental narrative techniques. Although he had already published short stories in "The Masked Days," he earned international fame later with "The Death of Artemio Cruz.
" FTP, name this major influence on contemporary Latin American literature.
\par ANSWER:\tab Carlos }{\b\ul Fuentes}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 22. Prometheus gave man fire and tricked the gods into accepting cow fat for their sacrifices. No wonder his name meant \ldblquote forward thinker.\rdblquote  Unfortunately his
 brother was not nearly as smart. It was this figure who accepted Pandora, symbol of all feminine faults, into his house despite Prometheus\rquote  warnings. FTP, name this tragic figure whose name means \ldblquote after thinker,\rdblquote  or \ldblquote 
hindsight.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Epimetheus}{
\par \page 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\qj\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \b\fs20\cgrid {\b0\fs22 23.}{\fs22  }{\b0\fs22 T
hough male, they wore female attire and participated in "women's work." The most famous one of these was We'Wha [wee-waa], who was showcased in Washington as an Indian Princess. This alternate gender, which the Zunis called lhamana [LA-ma-na], was present
 throughout the Plains Indians, but was one of the first things eliminated from their cultures. FTP, give the anthropological term for this third gender.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:}{\b \tab }{\b\ul Berdache}{\b  }{(accept }{\b\ul Lhamana}{\b  }{on early buzz)
\par 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page }{\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 8: BONI}{\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VIII. }{\fs24 Round 8.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24  PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\fs24\lang1024 10}}}{\fs24  of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\fs24\lang1024 1}}}{\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1999 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard\plain \s24\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {1. Answer the following questions about photography for 10 points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab What is the two-letter phrase that refers to the shiny markings on the side of film rolls that encode their speed.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul DX}{ coding (do not accept "ASA" or "ISO")
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab This term refers to the aperture of the iris in the lens, with a higher number indicating a smaller aperture.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul F-Stop}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab What are the length and height, in inches, of a standard APS panoramic print?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul 10 by 4}{ (accept alternate replies, but the numbers must be correct)
\par 
\par 2. Given a general equation, give the conic section it describes centered at the origin FTP each.
\par a.\tab Square root of the quantity x squared plus y squared equals a constant.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw circle }{
\par b.\tab x squared over a squared plus y squared over b squared equals 1
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw ellipse }{
\par c.\tab x squared over a squared minus y squared over b squared equals
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw hyperbola }{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f0\fs22 3. I love worms. I love they way they feel; I put them all over my body. I keep a worm farm, but one day my brother let
 them escape. To punish him, I\rquote m making him catch and return each worm to its jar. Problem is, he doesn\rquote t know which goes where, and is offering points to anyone who does. Please help, and hurry--they\rquote 
re crawling into the cat food, and I can\rquote t afford to visit the vet. Give the phylum or common name.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab First, he found our friendly planarian. Tell him where he goes; he\rquote ll give you 5 whole points.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\fs22\ul Platyhelminthes}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Flatworms}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 b.\tab The earthworms are drying up and will die in five seconds unless you tell my brother where they go.}{ You\rquote ll get 5 more points. 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\fs22\ul Annelida}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Segmented Worms}{\fs22  
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab The ones crawling toward the cat food turned out to be hookworms. Tell my brother which jar they go in, FTP. They\rquote re almost there!
\par }\pard\plain \s22\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\fs22\ul Nematoda}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Roundworms}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s24\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {4. Answer the following regarding the Oklahoma Land Grab:
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab For 5 points, in what year, the same one in which six states joined the Union, did the Grab take place?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab April 22, }{\b\ul 1889}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab For 10 points, name the term given to settlers who had squatted on land prior to the opening land date and who were chased out repeatedly by federal troops.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Sooners}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab For 15 points, within 10%, how many residents did previously \ldblquote uninhabited\rdblquote  Oklahoma boast by the end of 1889?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul 60,000}{ (accept 54,000 to 66,000) 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 5. }{\cf1 Identify these mountains named after American notables, for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab This mountain, named in 1985 for a famed American wilderness photographer who died in 1984, can be found on the southeast boundary of Yosemite National Park, wh
ere he did much of his work.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\ilvl12\adjustright \fs22 {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab Mount }{\b\ul\cf1 Ansel Adams}{\cf1 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cgrid b.\tab This peak, at 6288 feet, is the highest mountain in both New Hampshire and the Presidential}{\cf1  Range, which was so named because many of the peaks are named for\emdash you guessed it!\emdash 
US presidents. Name this peak.
\par ANSWER:\tab Mount }{\b\ul\cf1 Washington}{\cf1 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab This mountain is named after a man who discovered the headwaters of the Red and Arkansas River in 1806, before he was arrested for trespassing by the Spanish.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\cf1 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul\cf1 Pike}{\cf1 \rquote s Peak
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s24\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {6. For ten points each, answer these questions about apartheid reform in South Africa.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab This 1968-born movement, led by Stephen Biko, aimed to unify black students, intellectuals, and professionals and to increase their self-awareness.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul black consciousness}{ movement
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab Despite a recession
, economic and cultural sanctions, wars in Namibia and Angola, and other problems, this president made his mark by lifting the ban on opposing parties, negotiating a nonracial constitution, and calling for Nelson Mandela's freedom.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Frederik Willem }{\b\ul de Klerk}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab 
This party, founded by J.B.M. Hertzog in 1914, dominated South African government with its white supremacy and apartheid policies until it joined the African National Congress' government of national unity.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul National}{ Party
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s24\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {7. }{\cgrid0 Identify the authors of the following Pulitzer-prize winning novels for five points each. You\rquote ll get an additional five points if you get them all correct.
\par a.\tab }{\i\cgrid0 A Bell for Adano}{\cgrid0 \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab John }{\b\ul\cgrid0 Hersey}{\cgrid0 
\par b.\tab }{\i\cgrid0 A Confederacy of Dunces}{\cgrid0 \tab ANSWER:\tab John Kennedy }{\b\ul\cgrid0 O\rquote Toole}{\cgrid0 
\par c.\tab }{\i\cgrid0 The Town}{\cgrid0 \tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab Conrad }{\b\ul\cgrid0 Richter}{\cgrid0 
\par d.\tab }{\i\cgrid0 Dragon\rquote s Teeth}{\cgrid0 \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab Upton }{\b\ul\cgrid0 Sinclair}{\cgrid0 
\par e.\tab }{\i\cgrid0 The Reivers}{\cgrid0 \tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab William }{\b\ul\cgrid0 Faulkner}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s24\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {8. }{\cgrid0 Name the following college football players for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 a.\tab This Ohio State linebacker was a top candidate again for the Butkus Award, despite his academic troubles.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Andy }{\b\ul Katzenmoyer}{ 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 b.\tab This Kansas State quarterback led Division I-A with a 19.5 yards per completion average last year.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Michael }{\b\ul Bishop}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 c.\tab This quarterback is UCLA\rquote s all-time leading passer and was a Heisman Trophy candidate.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Cade }{\b\ul McNown}{\b 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s24\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {9. For ten points each, name the architect from the buildings.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab Bank of China, which is in Hong Kong
\par }\pard \s23\li360\widctlpar\adjustright {John F. Kennedy Library, which is in Boston, Massachusetts
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Ieoh Ming }{\b\ul Pei}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab Auditorium Building, which is in Chicago, Illinois
\par \tab Purdue State Bank, which is in Lafayette, Indiana 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Louis }{\b\ul Sullivan}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Baker House at MIT, Finnish Pavilion at the New York World\rquote s Fair 1938-39.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab (Hugo) Alvar (Henrik) }{\b\ul Aalto}{
\par }\pard\plain \s24\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 \page }{10. For the stated number of points, identify the philosophers who are associated with the following quotations.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab For 5: \ldblquote God is dead.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Friedrich }{\b\ul Nietzsche}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab For 10: \ldblquote I repeat it again, cultivators of the earth are the most virtuous and independent citizens.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Thomas }{\b\ul Jefferson}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab For 15: \ldblquote 
But it is necessary to be able to disguise this character well, and to be a great feigner and dissembler; and men are so simple and so ready to obey present necessities, that one who deceives will always find those who allow themselves to be deceived.
\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Niccolo }{\b\ul Machiavelli}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s24\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {11. Name these members of the House Judiciary Committee for ten points each
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab He is the chairman of the committee.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Henry }{\b\ul Hyde}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab This California representative replaced her husband last year.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Mary }{\b\ul Bono}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab This Michigan representative is the most influential black member of the committee.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab John }{\b\ul Conyers}{
\par 
\par 12. Recently, there has been a lot of press about weather changes that occur due to factors in the environment. For ten points each, answer the following questions.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab An abnormally cold pool of water stretching across the equatorial Pacific that causes far-flung changes in the atmosphere\rquote s behavior. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw La Ni\'f1a}{ 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab An abnormally warm mass of water stretching across the equatorial Pacific that causes far-flung changes in the atmosphere\rquote s behavior. 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\qj\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \fs20\ul\cgrid {\fs22\ulnone ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\fs22 El Ni\'f1o}{\fs22\ulnone 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Current of warm water that makes coastal areas near Norway and Iceland have warmer climates than normal in the winter months.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ul Gulf Stream
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {13. FTP, name the brain or neuron part.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 a.\tab This distinctive feature folds, sheet-like, over the cerebrum, and serves as the location for most}{ high level brain functions.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  cerebral }{\b\ulw cortex}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab These bunches of cable-like features, each only one hundredth thousandth of a meter long, send electrical signals to neurons.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw dendrites}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab This gap between a neuron and a dendrite is the transfer location for neurotransmitter chemical signals.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw synapse}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s24\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\page 14. Answer these related questions on American political history for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab 
It was formed in 1834 out or several smaller groups hungry for official power and eager to combat the executive activism of Andrew Jackson. The different factions within the party broke under the sectional pressures that began to tear America apart
 in the 1850\rquote s.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Whig}{ party
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab 
This party started up in 1826 after William Morgan made the news. A bricklayer, Morgan supposedly tried to reveal Freemason secrets and disappeared without a trace. Public distrust of the Masons spread and this party\rquote s
 first presidential candidate, William Wirt won the state of Vermont in 1832.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Anti-Masonic}{ party
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab This party arose in the late 1840\rquote s as anti-immigrant fervor began to manifest itself. Called the Secret Order of the Star-Spangled Banner, the party\rquote 
s members constantly denied any knowledge of the organization. The faction grew in importance and discarded the secrecy in the 1850\rquote 
s. The slavery issue eventually tore it apart the remaining members joined old-guard Whigs to form the Constitutional Union party in 1860.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Know-Nothing}{ or }{\b\ul American}{ Party
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {15. How much do you know about Wagner's Ring Cycle? Identify the following.
\par a.\tab For five points each, name the four operas that make up the cycle.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Das Rheingold}{, }{\b\i\ul Die Walkure}{, }{\b\i\ul Siegfried}{, and }{\b\i\ul Gotterdammerung}{ 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab 
For ten points, give the musical term that describes a brief, distinctive unit of music designed to represent a character, object, or idea; particularly applied to the motives of Wagner's operas.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul leitmotif}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {16. Display your heavy metal prowess by naming the member of the band Metallica from their instruments FTPE.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab drums\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab Lars }{\b\ul Ulrich}{
\par b.\tab bass\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab Jason }{\b\ul Newstead}{
\par c.\tab lead guitar;\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab Kirk }{\b\ul Hammett}{
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s24\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {17. Suppose the Federal Reserve gets really bored one day an
d decides to flex its macroeconomic muscles. It buys 1000 dollars in bonds and, suddenly, loans from banks increase by 5000 dollars in a closed economy.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab For 5 points, what is the open-market multiplier?
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f0\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\f0\fs22\ul 6}{\f0\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab FTP, what is the required reserve ratio?
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f0\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\f0\fs22\ul one-sixth}{\f0\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Sadly, those poor dudes at the Fed find out that no matter what they do they can\rquote 
t make more of one thing without making less of something else. For 15 points, what this is called?
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f0\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\f0\fs22\ul pareto efficiency}{\f0\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s24\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {
\par }\pard \s24\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright {\page 18. }{\cgrid0 How leftist and culturally aware are you? Let\rquote s see. Answer these following questions on this famous literary figure for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 a.\tab Born in 1898 in Augsburg, Germany, he died in East Berlin in 1956. A communist, he went into exile first in Scandanavia and then in A
merica, which he left in 1947 after he had to give evidence over to the House Un-American Activities Committee. His first successful play was }{\i\cgrid0 Drums in the Night}{\cgrid0 . His other famous works include }{\i\cgrid0 Galileo}{\cgrid0 , }{
\i\cgrid0 Mother Courage and Her Children }{\cgrid0 and }{\i\cgrid0 The Caucasian Chalk Circle}{\cgrid0 . FTP, name him.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Bertolt }{\b\ul Brecht}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 b.\tab Brecht worked closely with this German-born American composer as a librettist. First FTP, name the musical figure who also worked with Brecht on the 1928 cantata \ldblquote 
Lindberg Flight\rdblquote  and the 1930\rquote s students\rquote  opera \ldblquote The Yea Sayer.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Kurt }{\b\ul Weill}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 c.\tab We all know that Brecht wrote the libretto for the }{\i\cgrid0 Threepenny Opera}{\cgrid0 
, but do you know his other work, a musically disquieting mix of jazz with more traditional classical music styles?
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul The Rise and Fall of the City of Mahogany
\par }\pard \qj\fi720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {or }{\b\i\ul Aufstieg und Fall der Stadt Mahoganny}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s24\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {19. }{\cgrid0 For ten points each}{, name these characters from children's literature.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab A supporting character in several Beverly Cleary books, she is the spoiled brat sister of Ramona Quimby's friend Howie.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Willa Jean}{ Kemp
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Also appearing in a number of Beverly Cleary books, this rodent does things like ride a motorcycle.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 { ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Ralph S. Mouse}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab This is the black crewman who befriends the title character of Avi's novel, }{\i The True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle}{.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Zachariah}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s24\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {20. Since Socrates wrote nothing, all of what we know about his life and beliefs comes from Plato and historians. For ten points each, answer the following about Socrates\rquote s life.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab What was his wife\rquote s name?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Xanthippe}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab Which of Plato\rquote s dialogs describes the last days of Socrates\rquote s life?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab the }{\b\ul Phaedo}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Socrates was sentenced to death. By what method did he die?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab drinking }{\b\ul hemlock}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s24\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {21. \tab }{\cgrid0 For the stated number of points, name these banned books from a brief description.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 a.\tab For 5, this Mark Twain work has been banned because of its heavy use of racial slurs. It also depicts a young white boy escaping with a slave.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\i The Adventures of }{\b\i\ul Huckleberry Finn
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 b.\tab For 10, defensive school boards said that this Dr. Seuss tale about conservation and environmental frailty \ldblquote criminalizes the foresting industry.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Lorax}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 c.\tab For 15, this challenged collection of poems \ldblquote glorified Satan, suicide and cannibalism, and also encouraged children to be disobedient.\rdblquote 
 Name this subversive compendium of verse that includes such poems as \ldblquote Bear in There,\rdblquote  \ldblquote The Meehoo with an Exactlywatt\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Cloony the Clown.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\i A }{\b\i\ul Light in the Attic}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s24\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\page 22. Identify the poet who wrote the following lines for 10 points. Also, for an additional 5 points, tell me the drug he was probably on at the time.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab In Xanadu did Kubla Khan /A stately pleasure-dome decree: / Where Alph, the sacred river, ran / Through caverns measureless to man / Down to a sunless sea.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab poet: Samuel Taylor }{\b\ul Coleridge}{; drug: }{\b\ul laudanum}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness, starving hysterical naked / dragging themselves through the Negro streets at dawn looking for an angry fix
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab poet: Alan }{\b\ul Ginsburg}{; drug: }{\b\ul LSD}{ (accept "lysergic acid diethylamide")
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s24\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {23. For the ten points each, answer these questions about the Khmer Rouge.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {a.\tab In 1967, the Khmer Rouge were purportedly setup as the armed wing of what political party?
\par }\pard\plain \s24\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul\cgrid0 Communist}{\cgrid0  Party of Kampuchea
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {b.\tab By the 1950s, members of the Communist Party of Kampuchea secretly schemed to topple the government of this Cambodian prince.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Norodom }{\b\ul Sihanouk}{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {c.\tab Name the totalitarian leader and 1976-9 prime minister of the Khmer Rouge whose mass evacuations and executions earned him worldwide infamy by the time of his death in 1998.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Pol Pot}{
\par }\pard\plain \s24\widctlpar\adjustright \fs22\cgrid {\cgrid0 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }}