{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times;}{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f28\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f29\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f31\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f32\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f33\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\adjustright \f2\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Preformatted;}{\s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext21 Bonus Part;}{\s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar
\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon21 \snext22 Bonus First Line;}{\s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext23 Plain Text;}{\s24\qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs48 \sbasedon0 \snext24 Title;}}{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1377289\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc3\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid-1968261350\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid308049608}
{\list\listtemplateid-1714096156\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid752552822}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid308049608\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid752552822\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls3}}{\info{\title SEMIFINALS: TOSSUPS}{\author Yale Cluster User}
{\operator Victor Kao}{\creatim\yr1999\mo2\dy5\hr23\min47}{\revtim\yr1999\mo2\dy6\hr1\min18}{\printim\yr1999\mo2\dy5\hr23\min48}{\version3}{\edmins1}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords3465}{\nofchars19755}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws24260}{\vern71}}
\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i 
Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round X.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 3}}}{ of 7
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \s24\qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs48 {SEMIFINALS: TOSSUPS}{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\footery1060\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VIII. }{\fs24 Round 14.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24  PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\fs24\lang1024 7}}}{\fs24  of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\fs24\lang1024 10}}}{\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }{1. \tab In the }{\i Iliad}{ he was depicted living at Ephyre, was the son of Aeolus (eponymous ancestor of the Aeolians), and the father of Glaucus. Legend has it that when Death came to fetch him,
 he chained him up so that no one died until Ares came to aid Death. He also attempted to cheat death a second time by instructing his wife not to bury his body. For this, he was serverely punished. FTP name this mythical individual whose fate in Hades wa
s to roll a large rock up a hill, only to have it roll down again.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Sisyphus}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {2. \tab }{\f0 As a Yale student, he had to have a special, double-wide seat installed for his use in Woolsey Hall. As president, he was reputed to have broken his White House bathtub
. Given that he was in excess of 300 pounds, this isn\rquote t unlikely, and it\rquote s a miracle that the Supreme Court\rquote s furniture survived his tenure as Chief Justice. FTP, name this 27}{\f0\super th}{\f0 
 president of the United States, who was not fat, just big-boned.
\par ANSWER:\tab William Howard }{\b\f0\ul Taft}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {3. \tab 
In 1943 Ike Sewell figured that if you combined some of Italy's old, authentic recipes with impressive quantities of the finest meats, spices, vegetables and cheeses, pizza would become a hearty meal. This caused him to open this restau
rant at 29 East Ohio that specialized in his deep dish pizza. The demand at this restaurant soared, so Sewell opened up called Pizzeria Due. FTP identify this huge Chicago-style pizzeria that now sells franchises and frozen pizza.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Pizzeria }{\b\ul Uno}{ (accept Uno\rquote s pizza or equivalent)
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {4.\tab 
The descendant of an old Rhenish noble family, he married the heiress and granddaughter of former Austrian chancellor von Kaunitz.  As minister of foreign affairs, he was partly responsible for the marriage of Napoleon I 
and archduchess Marie-Louise, daughter of Francis I.  FTP, name this Austrian champion of conservatism, who helped restore Austria as a leading European power by forming the victorious alliance against Napoleon I and hosting the Congress of Vienna in 1814
-15.
\par ANSWER:\tab Kemens, Furst von }{\b\ul Metternich}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f0\fs22 5. \tab With songs like "Friend is a Four Letter Word" and "Stickshifts and Safteybelts," this band has invented a catchy new funky style. In 1994, they released }{\i\f0\fs22 
Motorcade of Generosity}{\f0\fs22 , then }{\i\f0\fs22 Fashion Nugget}{\f0\fs22  in 1996, and }{\i\f0\fs22 Prolonging the Magic}{\f0\fs22  in 1998. FTP, name the band that likes \ldblquote going the distance,\rdblquote  has covered \ldblquote 
I Will Survive,\rdblquote  scored a recent hit with \ldblquote Never There,\rdblquote and shares its name with a birthday dessert.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Cake}{
\par 
\par 6. \tab In the 1600s, the French set up trading 
posts at the mouth of this river, and later journeyed up the river, conquering interior lands between 1854-1865.  It has two main sources, the Bafing and the Bakoye, which meet at Bafoulabe, Mali.  From there, it travels 990 miles northwest, west, and sou
thwest, before reaching the Atlantic. FTP, name this Western African river, which forms the border between Mauritania and the country with its capital at Dakar.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Senegal}{ River
\par 
\par 7. \tab They were first given their name derogatorily by Francis Lord Jeffery in }{\i The Edinburgh Review}{ in 1817.  The name was taken from the location of the member poets\rquote 
 homes, in Cumberland and Westmorland, England.  For ten points, name this group whose member poets included Robert Southey, William Wordsworth and Samuel Taylor Coleridge.  
\par ANSWER: \tab }{\b\ul Lake}{ poets
\par }\pard \sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {8. \tab 
Born in Leiden, Holland in 1837, he was first an elementary school teacher but continued to attend lectures on physics and mathematics. When Latin and Greek were eliminated as requirements for university graduation, he go
t is degree in 1873. The most famous consequence of his university thesis was the revision of the ideal gas law to take intermolecular forces into account. FTP, name this winner of the 1910 Nobel Prize for Physics.\line ANSWER:\tab  Johannes Diderik }{
\b\ulw Van Der Waals}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {9. \tab 
This tennis player was born in 1968 in Prague and turned pro in 1987. Since then, he has reached a rank as high as number 2 in the world and won his first Grand Slam singles title in 1998 winning the Australian Open. Name this 31-year-old lefthander wh
o has recently come under fire for testing positive for steroids and will be stripped of his 1998 ranking points.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 ANSWER:\tab Peter }{\b\f0\ul Korda}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {10. \tab This West Virginian and Yale College/Yale Law graduate began his political career in the Department of Defense in 19
60. He later served in and resigned from the Johnson and Carter administrations over their political decisions. He served as deputy peace negotiator with Vietnam, worked unsuccessfully to release the Embassy hostages in Iran, and was a UN Envoy to Bosnia.
 FTP, name this former Secretary of State under Jimmy Carter.
\par ANSWER:\tab Cyrus Roberts }{\b\ul Vance}{
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {11. \tab \tab Cut the head and neck from the shoulders. Peel the skin from the skull and remove the skull and vertebrae. Boil the skin in water for half an hour. Allow to dry
, turn inside out, and scrape remaining muscle tissue away. Turn right-side out, sew up the mouth and place hot stones inside skin. Repeat with smaller stones until it has shrunk to the point that pebbles cannot roll around in it. Then begin adding and re
moving heated sand until it is slightly larger than a fist. FTP, this is the process for making what }{\i Ripley's Believe It or Not}{ staple?
\par ANSWER:\tab a }{\b\ul shrunken head}{ (accept variants, as well as "tsantsa")
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {12. \tab He was educated in abstract expressionism but broke with that movement around 1969 and moved on to creating Pop Art.  His works }{\i Pastry Case I}{ and }{\i Floor Cake}{
 brought him on to the national scene in 1962.  For ten points, name this artist whose soft telephones, toasters, and typewriters made of shiny vinyl plastic have been criticized as bloated and opulent.
\par ANSWER:\tab Claes }{\b\ul Oldenburg}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 13. \tab Historians believe that the origins of this legal writ probably come from medieval times. Its modern history dates from the reign of Henry VII, when efforts were made to empl
oy it on behalf of persons imprisoned by the Privy Council. It soon became a popular method for preventing illegal arrest and prolonged detainment. Abraham Lincoln managed to suspend it in 1861, but that was during a war. FTP, name this phrase that descri
bes when the judge or court orders one who holds another in his custody to produce the body of the person before the court.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul habeas corpus}{
\par 
\par 14. \tab He lived during the ninth century BC in Ascra. His two extant works, both major epics, illustrate the nat
ure of everyday life in ancient Greece and touch on such diverse matters as the intricacies of the law, the toils of farming, and the origins of the gods. FTP, name this famous figure of ancient Greek literature, author of }{\i Works and Days}{\~and the }
{\i Theogony.}{
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Hesiod}{ or }{\b\ul Hesiod}{os
\par }\pard \sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {15. \tab 
Damage in this area of the brain, associated with the temporal and parietal lobes, causes receptive aphasia, meaning the victim does not understand when he is spoken to, though he usually answers anyway. It lies on the super
ior part of the posterior temporal lobe. FTP, name this part of your noggin that controls receptive speech comprehension.\line ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ulw Wernicke\rquote s}{ Area
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {16. \tab \tab The city of Burbank, California has decided to name a highway interchange after an unlikely celebrity. 
 While most roads tend to be named after famous political or social leaders, California is a different sort of place.  Just a couple of off ramps east of Bob Hope Drive, the interchange would unite Interstate 5 and Highway 134, only a few miles from a mus
eum dedicated to this same performer.  FTP, name this man, America\rquote s original singing cowboy, who died in October of 1998.
\par ANSWER:\tab Gene }{\b\ul Autry}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 17. \tab It eats termites in south-west Austrailia.  Though it is a marsupial, it lacks a pouch, giving birth to about
 4 young each year. It has a grayish-brown body with 8 transverse stripes on the back, leading to its common name. Its other name resembles that of another familiar Australian animal.  FTP, name this creature which is neither a bat, nor numb.\line ANSWER:
\tab  }{\b\ulw Numbat}{ or }{\b\ulw Banded Anteater }{ or }{\b\ulw Myrmecobius Fasciatus}{
\par 
\par 18. \tab She went to live in the household of Queen Catherine Parr when she was only nine years old.  Beautiful and intelligent, she was proficient in Greek, Latin, French, Hebrew, and Italian at an early age.  
As the great-granddaughter of Henry VII, however, she could not help but become caught up in court political intrigues.  FTP, name this queen, who ruled England for nine days at the age of fifteen, executed by Mary Tudor two years later for high treason.

\par ANSWER:\tab Lady }{\b\ul Jane Grey}{  (ACC: Lady Jane Dudley)
\par 
\par 19.\tab In 1374, Edward the III granted him "a pitcher of wine daily."  Later, that year, he was appointed Controller of Wool Custom and Subsidy for the Port of London.  For ten points, name this Englishman, bett
er known for his role as a Justice of the Peace for Kent, the author of a book in which Pilgrims relate stories following their departure from the Tabard Inn called the }{\i Canterbury Tales}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab Geoffrey }{\b\ul Chaucer}{
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 20. \tab Openly critical of privilege and portr
aying the abuse of power by aristocrats, this comedy is the story of a resourceful, cunning, and scheming valet, who attempts to save his fianc\'e9
e, Suzanne, from the clutches of his master, Almaviva, who wants to seduce her. For ten points, name this comedy by Pierre-Augustin Caron de Beaumarchais and later turned into an opera by Mozart.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Le Nozze de Figaro}{ or }{\b\i\ul The Marriage of Figaro}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 21. \tab The title character of this play, originally written in Norwegian, is a woman driven by the desire to shape a man
's life. She sees that Mrs. Elvsted, her foil, has already managed to do that by raising Eilert Loevborg from the maelstrom of self-destruction. She, therefore, tries to undo Mrs. Elvsted's accomplishment by burning Loevborg's single copy of the manuscrip
t that both he and Mrs. Elvsted refer to as their "child." FTP, name this 1890 Henrik Ibsen play.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Hedda Gabler}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {22. \tab In this religion\rquote s ritual services, a number of devotees congregate at a temple, usually a humble meeting place, where a priest or p
riestess leads them in ceremonies involving song, drumming, dance, prayer, food preparation, and the ritual sacrifice of animals. Spirits called the }{\i loa}{
 communicate with an individual during the cult services by possessing him during a trance state. It\rquote s no surprise that the Roman Catholic church advocated persecution of this faith. FTP be a doll and identify this Hatian religion.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul voodoo}{
\par }\pard \qj\sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {23. \tab This term is both a reproductive method in sponges and a rejected hypothesis for heritibility in animals.  I
n sponges, these are collections of cells and food granules that are expelled from the surface of the sponge and go on to generate another individual in a form of asexual reproduction.  Darwin thought that these carried the information about the various p
arts of the body to the germ cells to allow for heiritibility of acquired traits.  FTP, give the term, which might be confused for beasts of burden carrying diamonds.\line ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Gemmule }{s
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page }{\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 14: BONI}{\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {1. 30-20-10. But this is no ordinary 30-20-10. Given these excerpts, name the composer }{\i or}{ the work.
\par [30]\tab Clip #1
\par [20]\tab Clip #2
\par [10]\tab Clip #3
\par \tab ANSWER: Alexander Porfiryevich }{\b\ul Borodin}{ or }{\b\i\ul Prince Igor}{ or }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Polovtsian Dances}{ 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 2. For ten points each, identify the philosophical movement or method associated with each of the following individuals. All the answers start with the same letter.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab Auguste Comte\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul positivism}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab Edmund Husserl\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul phenomenology}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab C.S. Peirce\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul pragmatism}{\fs22 
\par 
\par 3. \tab Give the first and last names the authors of the following poems for the stated number of points. Remember to give more than the last name.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab For 5, \ldblquote Ode on a Grecian Urn\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul John Keats}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab For 10, \ldblquote An Elegy Written in a Country Church Yard\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Thomas Gray}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab For 15, "An Horatian Ode upon Cromwell's Return from Ireland"
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Andrew Marvell}{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 
\par 4. Answer these questions about the history of Taiwan for 10 points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab Name the first group to settle the island of Taiwan, who landed on the island in 1
622, granted permission to establish a colony there by the Chinese government in 1624.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Dutch}{ or equivalent
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab Cheng Ch\rquote eng Kung, known pirate and Chinese military leader, drove the Dutch out of Taiwan in 1661 and ruled Taiwan, intending it to be a 
base for the re-establishment of this recently fallen dynasty.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Ming}{\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab As a product of }{\i\fs22 d\'e9tente}{\fs22  with the People\rquote 
s Republic of China, Taiwan loses the support of the United States and other nations, leading to its expulsion from the United Nations in this year.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul 1971}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 5. 30-20-10.  Identify the sculptor.
\par 30:\tab Hotel Biron, where he worked for 9 years until his death in 1917, now serves as a home of a museum that is named after him.
\par 20:\tab He married Rose Beuret, the mother of his only son, Auguste-Eugene, only 17 days before her death, perhaps because of his tumultuous love affair with the artist Camille Claudel who was his pupil in 1882.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {10:  Hailed as the greatest sculptor since Michelangelo, he is the creator of "The Kiss," and "The Thinker."
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Auguste }{\b\ul Rodin}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page 6. A subject of movies and a symbol of our beloved nation, }{\i Air Force One}{ is an aircraft fit for our president. Answer the following questions about it for ten points each.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\i\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 a.\tab}}\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls2\adjustright {\i Air Force One}{
 is a heavily modified version of a civilian aircraft. State the current make and model of }{\i Air Force One}{.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Boeing 747}{
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 b.\tab}}\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls2\adjustright {
Actually, Boeing made two of these snazzy 747 for American presidential travel. Tell me who was president when the current 747s went into service.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab George Herbert Walker }{\b\ul Bush}{ (the year was 1990)
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 c.\tab}}\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls2\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls2\adjustright {
The current presidential aircraft were commissioned because the previous presidential plane no longer met FAA restrictions. State the make and model of the plane that served as Air Force One prior to the Boeing 747.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Boeing 707
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s23\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {7. \tab }{\fs22 Give the name of this weirdos who thought they could make things fly for ten points each.
\par a. \tab Well, I guess you can call him the father of weirdos who thought they could make things fly. He has made many diagrams that might enable flight, of which inclu
des what modern people can best describe as a helicopter. For ten points, name this weirdo.
\par ANSWER: \tab Leonardo }{\b\fs22\ulw Da Vinci}{\fs22 
\par b. \tab These brothers - don\rquote t start salivating now, it\rquote s not the Wright brothers. In fact, they lived in the 18th century, as pioneers of th
e hot-air balloons, who were the first ones to fly in the balloons untethered. For ten points, name the French brothers, who have persevered in their weirdness actually to get air. 
\par ANSWER: \tab Joseph-Michel and Jacques-Etienne }{\b\fs22\ulw Montgolfier}{\fs22  
\par c. \tab He is considered the father of modern rocketry. Inspired by H.G. Wells\rquote  }{\i\fs22 War of the Worlds}{\fs22 
, he literally dreamed of constructing a workable space-flight machine. For ten points, name this physics professor at Clark University and the final weirdo in a series.
\par ANSWER: \tab Robert Hutchings }{\b\fs22\ulw Goddard}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 8. \tab For ten points each, name these 19th century adventure novels given clues.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab This 1813 novel by Johann Wyss was basically a how-to on desert island living, and was originally titled "The Shipwrecked Preacher and His Family: An 
Instructional Book for Children and Their Friends in City or Country." The title was later shortened to this commonly-known name.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul The Swiss Family Robinson}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab This book is Jules Verne's 1865 story about space travel, postulating ways to visit outside Earth way before NASA or JPL.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul From the Earth to the Moon}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab 
Robert Louis Stevenson's 1886 novel tells of young David Balfour and the adventures he encounters as a result of his stolen inheritance.  One thing leads to another, and pretty soon the gypped heir has joined the party of the Highland outlaw Alan Breck.

\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Kidnapped}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 9. Name the college basketball team from the coach, for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 5:\tab Bill Guthridge\tab \tab ANSWER: University of }{\b\fs22\ul North Carolina}{\fs22  at Chapel Hill or }{\b\fs22\ul UNC}{\fs22 
\par 10:\tab Billy Donovan\tab \tab ANSWER: University of }{\b\fs22\ul Florida}{\fs22  at Gainesville
\par 15:\tab Charlie Spoonhour\tab \tab ANSWER: University of }{\b\fs22\ul St. Louis}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\page 10. Identify the following architects for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab The most famous Florentine architect of the 1400\rquote s, he lost the commission for 
the bronze doors of the Baptistery of Florence to Lorenzo Ghiberti.  Often credited for the \ldblquote discovery\rdblquote 
 of perspective, he revived Roman architectural forms, and his greatest feat was the construction of the dome of the Florence Cathedral.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Filippo di ser }{\b\ul Brunelleschi}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab 
The outstanding architect of the High Renaissance, he was much influenced by Brunelleschi.  Among his works are the Belvedere ampitheater at the Vatican, the Sta Maria delle Grazie in Milan, the Tempietto of San Pietro, and the design of the new St. Peter
\rquote s Cathedral in Rome, although it was greatly modified by Michelangelo.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Donato di Angelo }{\b\ul Bramante}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Both a painter and an architect, he was a pupil under Raphael, and was one of the leading founders of Mannerism.  He was forc
ed to flee from Rome for designing a series of pornographic prints, and deliberately flouted the canons of Bramante in his most important work, the Palazzo del Te, built for Federigo Gonzaga.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Giulio }{\b\ul Romano}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 11. The last time the British were invade
d was in 1066 by William of Normandy. Answer these questions surrounding the Norman invasion, none of which has the answer, the Battle of Hastings, 1066, for 10 points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab Another group of ambitious invaders had attempted to take England earlier in th
e same year of the Norman invasion, giving William the opportunity to attack while Harold\rquote s troops were worn out. Name this battle, won by Harold\rquote s troops, prior to their defeat later at Hastings.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Battle of }{\b\ul Stamford Bridge}{\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab The administratively a
dept William enacted policies that helped firmly establish the permanency of Norman rule. As part of this effort, he conducted a comprehensive survey of the families, lands, and property titles of the country. Compiled in a large volume, this book is now 
a source of history and genealogy, still used to this day.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Domesday}{ Book
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab This large tapestry, measuring over 230 feet long, is well-known for depicting the scenes of the conquest of England by William the Conqueror. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Bayeux}{
\par 
\par }{\b [Audio Bonus]
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {12. Pop music time. Given the clips, identify the artist or the song FTPE.
\par a.   Clip 1
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Jimi Hendrix}{, }{\b\ul Purple Haze
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {b.   Clip 2
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Herbie Hancock}{, }{\b\ul Chameleon
\par }{c.   Clip 3
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Rage Against the Machine}{, }{\b\ul Bulls on Parade
\par }{\page 13. Identify the Egyptian deity from a description for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab The oldest of Egyptian gods, his name means "water," and he represented the primeval waters of chaos out of which Re-Atum began creation.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Nun}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Nu}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab She hid her son, Horus, from Seth, the murderer of her husband, until Horus was fully grown and could avenge his father.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Isis}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Aset}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Eset}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab He was believed to travel across the sky in his solar bark and, during the night, to make his passage in another bark through the underworld, where, i
n order to be born again for the new day, he had to vanquish the evil serpent Apopis.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Re}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Ra}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Phra}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par 14.  With Valentine\rquote s Day coming up, it might be romantic to impress your significant other with your knowledge of the holiday and its Roman historical roots. Brush up on your knowledge of this day for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab 
For 5, Before the Christian influence allowed the holiday to be changed into a celebration of the supposed St. Valentine, February 14 was a day honoring this Roman goddess.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Juno}{\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab For 15, the following day, February 15, marked the beginning of this important festival, from which the custom of giving Valentines is thought to have derived.

\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Lupercalia}{ or }{\b\ul Feast of Lupercalia}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab The legendary St. Valentine was supposedly martyred on February 14}{\fs22\super th}{\fs22 
, around the year 270, killed by Emperor Claudius II. This offered a convenient explanation for Christians to replace the popular pagan holidays of Juno and Lupercalia with a Christian alternative. What offense was St. Valentine reputedly executed for?

\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul performing marriages}{ (or equivalent)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 15. }{\fs22\cgrid0 Given a country, name its currency for 10 points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab Ireland\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul punt}{\fs22\cgrid0 
\par }{\fs22 b.\tab Brazil\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul real}{\fs22\cgrid0 
\par }{\fs22 c.\tab Belgium\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul franc}{\fs22\cgrid0 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 16. \tab Identify the following concerning a notable American naval victory in the American War for Independence.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab On September 23, 1779, when the American and British ships met in a grueling 3.5 hour gun battle, he uttered the infamous words \ldblquote 
I have not yet begun to fight!\rdblquote  Name him for ten points.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab John Paul }{\b\ul Jones}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab FTPE, name both Jones\rquote  ship and the British frigate commanded by Captain Richard Pearson.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Bonhomme Richard}{\b\ul  }{ and  }{\b\i\ul Serapis}{\b\ul 
\par }{
\par 17. Identify these \ldblquote A\rdblquote  terms from chemistry FTP each.
\par A.  This term refers to any species which is both an acid and a base, like BH}{\sub 3}{
\par ANSWER:\tab   }{\b\ulw Amphoteric}{ (or }{\b\ulw amphiprotic}{)
\par 
\par B.  Graphite and diamond, or red phosphorus and white phosphorus, are examples of these physically distinct forms of elements.
\par ANSWER:\tab   }{\b\ulw Allotropes}{ (or }{\b\ulw allotropic}{)
\par 
\par C.  Technically known as propanone, this is a useful solvent in organic chemistry.
\par ANSWER:\tab   }{\b\ulw Acetone}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 18. For ten points each, identify the ancient Greek playwright given the list of his works.
\par a.\tab }{\i\fs22 Alcestis}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 The Heracleidae}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Hippolytus}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Euripides}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab }{\i\fs22 Ajax}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 The Women of Trachis}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Electra}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Sophocles}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab }{\i\fs22 Agamemnon}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 The Eumenides}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Prometheus Bound}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Aeschylus}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 19. Identify the person from some of their supposed last words for 10 points each. You\rquote ll only get 5 points if you need their manner of death.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 10:\tab \ldblquote I have great fear you are going to suffer by my death.  Jesus! Jesus!\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {5:\tab Burned at the stake.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Joan of Arc}{ (accept "Jeanne D\rquote Arc")
\par 10:\tab \ldblquote Stand away, fellow, from my diagram!\rdblquote 
\par 5:\tab Stabbed in the back by a Roman soldier.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Archimedes}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 10:\tab \ldblquote Go away.  I\rquote m fine.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {5:\tab Natural causes.
\par ANSWER:\tab H. G. }{\b\ul Wells
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 20. \tab Identify the following terms from the world of law and politics for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab Writs of this sort are used to review questions of law or to correct errors and to insure against excesses by t
he lower courts. Such writs are also issued in exceptional cases when an immediate review is required.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\f0\ul certiorari}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab This two word term refers to a newly elected official or group continuing to hold political office during the period between the el
ection and the inauguration of a successor.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\f0\ul lame duck}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab This writ commands a person to produce in court certain designated documents or evidence.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\f0\ul subpoena}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {21. }{\fs22 For ten points each, name the novel based on a list of characters. You\rquote ll only get 5 pts each if you need the author's name.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab 10:\tab Dominique Francon, Howard Roark, Peter Keating, Ellsworth Toohey, Gail Wynand
\par }\pard \s21\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 5:\tab The author is Ayn Rand.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Fountainhead}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab 10:\tab Larisa Feodorovna, Victor Komarovsky, Tonia Gromeko, Pasha Antipov
\par }\pard \s21\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 5:\tab The author is Boris Pasternak.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Dr. Zhivago}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab 10:\tab Love Simpson, Rucker Blakeslee, Will Tweedy, Aunt Loma, Lightfoot McLendon
\par }\pard \s21\li360\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 5:\tab The author is Olive Ann Burns.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Cold Sassy Tree}{
\par 
\par 22. You\rquote re eating a ham sandwich.  FTP each, given a part of the digestive tract, say what will mainly be digested there:  the ham, the bread, both, or neither.
\par a.  \tab The mouth.\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab   }{\b\ulw Bread}{
\par }{\fs24 b.  \tab The sigmoid colon\tab \tab ANSWER:\tab   }{\b\fs24\ulw Neither}{\fs24 
\par c.  \tab The ileum\tab \tab \tab ANSWER:\tab   }{\b\fs24\ulw Both}{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs24 \page 23. Perform the following basic integrations FTP each.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 a.\tab The integral of dee-u over u
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\fs24\ulw natural log of the absolute value of u plus C}{\fs24  (prompt if they omit the absolute value or }{C, acc variants in the answer provided that it is still correct ex. they say \ldblquote a constant\rdblquote  instead of C)

\par b.\tab The integral of e to the u times dee-u
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw e to the u plus C}{  (prompt if they omit C, acc variants in the answer provided that it is still correct ex. they say \ldblquote a constant\rdblquote  instead of C)
\par c.\tab The integral of secant squared u times dee-u
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw tangent u plus C}{ (prompt if they omit C, acc variants in the answer provided that it is still correct ex. they say \ldblquote a constant\rdblquote  instead of C, or they say \ldblquote tan\rdblquote  instead of \ldblquote tangent
\rdblquote )
\par }}