{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}TIMES;}{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f28\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f29\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f31\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f32\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f33\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f40\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 TIMES CE;}{\f41\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 TIMES Cyr;}{\f43\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 TIMES Greek;}
{\f44\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 TIMES Tur;}{\f45\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 TIMES Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 
\snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright 
\fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s20\widctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\adjustright 
\f2\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Preformatted;}{\s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext21 Bonus Part;}{\s22\qj\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext22 Bonus First Line;}{\s23\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid 
\sbasedon0 \snext23 Plain Text;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1377289\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc3\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }
{\listname ;}\listid1}{\list\listtemplateid-1968261350\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname 
;}\listid308049608}{\list\listtemplateid-1968261350\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat2\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid688260400}
}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid688260400\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid308049608\listoverridecount0\ls3}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator ITS Academic Computing}
{\creatim\yr1999\mo2\dy2\hr23\min46}{\revtim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr15\min28}{\printim\yr1999\mo2\dy3\hr7\min5}{\version8}{\edmins87}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords139}{\nofchars797}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern89}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i 
Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }{Round X.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 3}}}{ of 7
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 13: TOSSUPS}{\fs24 

\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\footery1240\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VIII. }{\fs24 Round 13.\tab Page }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24  PAGE }}{\fldrslt {
\fs24\lang1024 2}}}{\fs24  of }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs24  NUMPAGES }}{\fldrslt {\fs24\lang1024 9}}}{\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\i\fs18 \'a9 1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {\fs24 
\par }\pard \sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {1.\tab Dana Scully preformed one on the X-files recently.  They are preformed to detect a DNA sequence among a population of DNA fragm
ents.  DNA is run on a gel, transferred to a membrane, and then exposed to a labeled probe of either DNA or RNA.  It has two directionally named counterparts, but Eastern is notably absent.  FTP, what is this procedure named after its inventor from the Un
iversity of Edinburgh [Edin-burruh], and quite distinct from a Southern belle?\line ANSWER: \tab }{\b\ulw Southern Blot}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 2. \tab After a stint as an attorney, this Kentucky native began his political career in his state legislature in 1849. In 1851 he was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives, where he became known as a loyal Democrat. In 1861, he succeeded Kentucky
\rquote s John Crittenden in the U.S. Senate, but was expulsed after joining the Confederate Army and later becoming Confederate secretary of war.  FTP, name this man, who served as vice-president for James Buchanan.
\par ANSWER:\tab John }{\b\ul Breckinridge}{
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {3. \tab \tab In 1943, this man's 15-month old son suddenly contracted rheumatoid arthritis, and the only thing that made him feel better was hydrotherapy treatments he got in the hospital
. So the man, who owned one of the world's largest manufacturers of submersible pumps, adapted one so it would work in his bathtub. His invention was first sold through drugstores but when Hollywood discovered it, it became a symbol of luxury. FTP, name t
he inventor of the whirlpool bath. \line ANSWER:\tab Candido }{\b\ul Jacuzzi}{ 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 4.  \tab He was born in Brooklyn, NY in 1928, but began his career as an illustrator.  He worked at FAO Schwartz during the day and went to art school at night. His first assignments were illustrating the children's books \ldblquote Wonderful Farm
\rdblquote  and \ldblquote A Hole is to Dig.\rdblquote  In 1956, he wrote and illustrated his first book, \ldblquote Kenny's Window.\rdblquote  FTP name this man, most famous for a trilogy which included, \ldblquote Outside Over There,\rdblquote  
\ldblquote In the Night Kitchen,\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Where the Wild Things Are.\rdblquote   
\par ANSWER:\tab Maurice }{\b\ul Sendak}{
\par 
\par 5. \tab As one of several powerful Greek deities excluded from the Olympian Twelve, this god was content to live on earth in rural Arcadia as a herdsman. Although the accounts of his birth vary greatly, most say Hermes
 fathered him with Dryope, Oeneis, or Penelope. FTP, name this god, known for his absolute lack of pulchritude and known as the only god who has died in Greek myth.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Pan}{
\par }{\cf1 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\qj\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 6. \tab He received his MD from the University of Zurich in 1912. He then lived in Russia for several years before moving back to his native Switzerland. In 1917, he learned about Syzman Hens
\rquote  work studying the human tendency to project interpretations and feelings onto ambiguous stimuli. He would become famous by devising a psychological testing system that expanded on Hens\rquote s findings. FTP, name this Swiss psychologist, who
\rquote s popularized the use of unstructured forms such as symmetrical inkblots as a diagnostic tool.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Hermann }{\b\ul Rorschach}{
\par 
\par 7. \tab Born in St. Louis, Missouri on September 26, 1888, he ranks among the most respected poets of the 20th century. Published in 1917, "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock" was his first major poem, revealing a mix of humor a
nd pessimism that was new to English literature. Five years later, "The Waste Land" reflected the spiritual bankruptcy he saw in modern Europe. FTP, name this contemporary of Ezra Pound who is known by his initials.
\par ANSWER:\tab T.S. (Thomas Stearns) }{\b\ul Eliot}{
\par }\pard \sb360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {8. \tab It\rquote 
s inverse is itself.  Any square matrix multiplied by it yields the original matrix, making it the matrix math equivalent of the number one.  It contains ones on its diagonal and zeros at all other values.  FTP, name this useful square matrix.\line 
ANSWER:\tab  the }{\b\ulw Identity }{ matrix (prompt on \ldblquote I\rdblquote )
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 9. \tab He was descended from an ancient family which had served the House of Savoy as soldiers and officials since the sixteenth century.  Under King Charles Albert, he founded the newspaper }{\i Il Risorgimento }{and won electi
on to Parliament in June 1848. FTP, name this statesman, who brought about the 1861 unification of Italy under Victor Emmanuel II and served as its first prime minister.
\par ANSWER:\tab Camillo Benso, Conte di }{\b\ul Cavour}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {10. \tab He once said \ldblquote I'm not trying to be funny. I just want to play with their heads." His effortless switches of character and mood made him an especially popular comic during the 1970\rquote 
s. Many wondered if his persona of Tony Clifton was genuine or not. After a stint of playing Latka Gravas on }{\i Taxi}{, he
 went on to a lackluster movie career. Despite his clean-living, he subcumbed to a rare form of lung cancer, but not before engaging in inter-gender wrestling and personally defeating 400 women in combat. FTP, name this crazy comedian who died in 1984.

\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 ANSWER:\tab Andy }{\b\f0\ul Kaufman}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {11. \tab \tab 
Unity, a coalition of minority journalist groups, has recently ended its fractious civil rights debate by  choosing this city, which voted against affirmative action, as its convention site.   The boycotters thought that abandoning
 this city would make the most forceful statement, but the board saw the city's strong American Indian presence and growing Asian population as factors that outweigh the opposing argument.   FTP, name this Starbucks-ridden west coast city, the site of the
 1999 summer convention of Unity.    
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Seattle}{, Washington
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 12. \tab We all know that Bo Jackson and Deion Sanders have played both professional baseball and football, but this man accomplished this feat over 80 years before they did. And he later went o
n to become the first president of the American Professional Football Association. FTP identify this Sac and Fox Indian who won gold medals in both the pentathlon and decathlon in 1912.
\par ANSWER:\tab James (Jim) Francis }{\b\ul Thorpe}{
\par 
\par 13. \tab This indicator works in a pH range of 8.3-10, turns from clear to pink, is abbreviated PPT. FTP, identify this chemistry laboratory mainstay. Just be glad we didn\rquote t ask you to spell this common tool in titrations.\line ANSWER:\tab  }{
\b\ulw Phenolphthalein}{
\par 
\par 14. \tab The son of an artillery officer, he was 
commissioned a second lieutenant in the Royal Engineers in 1852, distinguishing himself in the Crimean War with his reckless bravery.  In 1863, he became the commander of the 3,500-man peasant force known as the \ldblquote Ever-Victorious Army, 
\rdblquote  raised to defend Shanghai.  FTP, name this British general who became a national hero for his important role in the suppression of the Taiping Rebellion and his ill-fated defense of Khartoum against Sudanese rebels.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab Charles George }{\b\ul Gordon}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 15. \tab 
Written about 4000 years ago on twelve cuneiform tablets, this secular story features a hero's vain search for immortality and a reference to the Noah-like survivor of a great flood.  FTP, name the hybrid interweaving of separate Sumerian tales, one of th
e largest Babylonian epic poems.ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Gilgamesh}{ epic
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {16. \tab Born in 1685, he was discouraged from being a musician from an early age, and his father burned his clavichord when he was 13.  He stubbornly stuck with music, however, and studied in Italy from 1
706-1710. He moved to England in 1712 an eventually became court composer to George I.  Name this composer of }{\i Israel in Egypt}{, }{\i Juda Maccabees}{, }{\i Semele}{, and the}{\i  Messiah}{.
\par ANSWER:\tab George Frideric }{\b\ul Handel}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 17. \tab }{\cf1 Born in Geneva to a father who had been exiled for a duel, this men left the city himself when he was to be apprenticed to an engraver. Engrossed in the French Enlightenment, he later wrote portions of the }{\i\cf1 Encyclop\'e9die}{\cf1 
. He is better known, however, for writing that \ldblquote man is born free, but everywhere he is in chains.\rdblquote  FTP name this author of }{\i\cf1 Confessions}{\cf1  and the }{\i\cf1 Social Contract}{\cf1 .
\par ANSWER:\tab Jean-Jacques }{\b\ul\cf1 Rousseau}{\cf1 
\par }{
\par 18. \tab After the overthrow of the Medici in 1494, he became the sole leader of Florence, setting up a democratic republic.  Renowned for his clashes with t
yrannical rulers and corrupt clergy, his chief enemies were the Duke of Milan and Pope Alexander VI.  He was ultimately tried and executed by the Church, mainly because he refused to cooperate with the pope\rquote 
s political intrigues. FTP, name this Italian Christian preacher, reformer, and martyr.
\par ANSWER:\tab Girolamo }{\b\ul Savonarola
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f0\fs22 19. \tab This country is home to Fiordland. No, this isn\rquote t where assembly line production was invented. Rather, it\rquote 
s a region home to both Milford and Doubtful Sound, walking tracks, and the Te Anau resort. Its Ana-Au caves are the only such caves open to the public in the Southern Hemisphere. FTP, name this country southeast of Australia.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul New Zealand}{
\par 
\par 20. \tab Tennessee-born James Agee is well known for his poetry and novels but it was thi
s 1941 study of Southern culture that first made his name famous. With photographer Walker Evans, he crossed racial boundaries to portray a way of life that he felt was neglected and rapidly fading. FTP, name this work that combined reporting, prose, and 
photography, and endeavored to capture on the page the life and work of  both black and white sharecroppers in the American South. 
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Let Us Now Praise Famous Men}{
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx360\adjustright {21. \tab \tab Its name is derived from the word for thunder, and it often begins a weekly time
 of partying for college students. Those who have lived through the 1980s, however, remember it being a time for stellar television shows. In fact, one could watch \ldblquote The Cosby Show,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Family Ties,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Cheers,
\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Night Court\rdblquote  all in a row without leaving NBC. FTP name the day of the week that is now home to NBC\rquote s \ldblquote must see TV.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Thursday}{
\par 
\par 22. \tab Pencil and paper ready.  Assume g equals 10 meters per second and neglect air resistance.  An unconcsious penguin is dropped from a tower onto a moving platform
 that is 100 meters below at the time the ball is dropped and is moving downward at 1 meter per second. Assuming a completely inelastic collision with the platform, FTP how long does it take the penguin to hit the platform again after its first bounce?  Y
ou have 15 seconds.\line ANSWER:   }{\b\ulw 0}{ seconds (the penguin doesn\rquote t bounce, all the kinetic energy is lost in the inelastic collision)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {23. \tab This dance is said to have been invented by Sebastian Cerezo, a dancer from Cadiz in 1780.  It can be danced by one dancer or a couple, and involves movements such as the }{\i entrechat}{
.  For ten points, name this Spanish dance made famous by Maurice Ravel's 1927 piece for orchestra and danced to on ice by Torvill and Dean in 1984.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul bolero}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\page }{\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs48 ROUND 13: BONI}{\fs24 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VIII
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }{1. \tab Given the mathematical mnemonic, give the thing or things which it helps you remember.
\par a. \tab After you\rquote ve been skiing for too long, you need to go home and SOA CAH TOH [so ka toe]
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw trig}{inometry definitions (acc. equivalents.  Sine is opposite over adjacent, cosine is adjacent over hypotenuse, tangent is opposite over hypotenuse)
\par b. \tab Scot\rquote s cozy sinner of a secretary squarely and secretly co-seeks a cot.  Sexy and tanned, cozy secluded cottage, casual sexual contact twice.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw trig}{inometric }{\b\ulw derivatives}{ (acc. equivalents.  Derivative of sine is cosine, cos=-sin, tan=sec squared, sec=sec tan, csc=-csc cot, cot=-csc squared)
\par c. \tab How I need a drink, alcoholic in nature, after the heavy lectures involving quantum mechanics.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f0\fs22 ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\f0\fs22\ulw Digits Of Pi}{\f0\fs22 
 (acc. equivalents.  Each word has as many letters as the digit of pi at that ordinal place.)
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 2. \tab FTPE, answer these questions about the Boxer Rebellion.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab \ldblquote Boxers\rdblquote 
 was what foreigners dubbed this Chinese secret society, which practiced calisthenic rituals that supposedly endowed them with supernatural powers and made them bulletproof.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Righteous and Harmonious Fists}{_
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab In June 1900, an international relief force of 2,100 was sent to this city, whose Christian inhabitants and Western missionaries were being attacked by the Boxers.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Peking}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Name the monarch who threw her support behind the Boxers, hoping that the would expel the foreign encroachment on China\rquote s power.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Empress }{\b\ul Cixi}{ (accept Empress Dowager)\line 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 3. \tab 30-20-10 name the author from clues.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 30:\tab This American author was born in 1899, and joined the staff of the newly formed }{\i\fs22 magazine The New Yorker}{\fs22 
 in 1926, remaining a frequent contributor throughout his life.
\par 20:\tab From 1938-1943 he worked for }{\i\fs22 Harper's}{\fs22  magazine, publishing the widely read monthly column "One Man's Meat." He also contributed to }{\i\fs22 Elements of Style}{\fs22 .
\par 10:\tab His most famous work was as a children's writer.  His stories often featured animal heroes overcoming great odds, like the brave mouse in }{\i\fs22 Stuart Little}{\fs22 .
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Elwyn Brooks }{\b\ul White}{     
\par \tab 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 4. For ten points each, identify these musicians from the early 1900\rquote s, among th
e first to be inducted into the new American Classical Music Hall of Fame last May in Cincinnati, Ohio.
\par a.\tab An experimenter of many different styles, this Russian-born composer created such works }{\i\fs22 as Apollo Musagete}{\fs22 , and }{\i\fs22 Symphony of Psalms}{\fs22 .
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Igor }{\b\ul Stravinsky}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab An American composer and pianist, he was one of the most important developers of ragtime music, including songs such as }{\i\fs22 The Entertainer}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 
Maple Leaf Rag}{\fs22 .
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 ANSWER:\tab Scott }{\b\f0\ul Joplin}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab 
Born of Polish and Irish parentage, he conducted Philadelphia Orchestra for twenty-five years, and helped found the New York City Symphony (now defunct) and the American Symphony Orchestra.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 ANSWER:\tab Leopold }{\b\f0\ul Stokowski}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 5. Identify the following about early religious thinkers for ten points each.
\par }\pard \s22\qj\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright {\fs22 a.\tab He was bishop of Hippo in Roman Africa from 396 to 430, and the dominant personality of the Western Church of his time. He wrote a book called }{\i\fs22 City of God}{\fs22 .
\par }\pard \s22\qj\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab Saint }{\b\fs22\ul Augustine}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \s22\qj\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright {\fs22 b.\tab Bishop of Milan during Augustine\rquote s life, this man was also Augustine\rquote 
s model bishop. A bit of a rebel, he boldly imposed imposed public penance on Theodosius for having punished a riot in Thessalonica by a massacre of its citizens.
\par ANSWER:\tab Saint }{\b\fs22\ul Ambrose}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Ambrosius}{\fs22  
\par c.\tab A popular doctri
ne that claimed to be the true Christianity, this system accounted for the creation of the world as the product of a conflict between light and dark substances and for the soul of man as an element of the light entangled in the dark.
\par ANSWER:\tab the }{\b\fs22\ul Manichaean}{\fs22  system or }{\b\fs22\ul Manichaeism}{\fs22 
\par }\pard \s22\qj\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {6. \tab Now that Michael Jordan has retired again, see if you can answer the following questions about the former NBA star for the stated number of points.
\par 5:\tab What pick was Jordan in the first round of the 1985 draft?
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul third}{
\par 10:\tab What the state he was born in?
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul New York}{
\par 15:\tab He attended Laney High School in what North Carolina city?
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Wilmington}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 7. \tab Given a famous work of contemporary Asian-American literature, name the writer for 10 points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab }{\i\fs22 Native Speaker\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab }{\fs22 ANSWER: Chang-Rae }{\b\fs22\ul Lee}{\fs22 
\par b.\tab }{\i\fs22 The Woman Warrior: Memoirs of a Girlhood Among Ghosts\tab }{\fs22 ANSWER: Maxine Hong }{\b\fs22\ul Kingston}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab }{\i\fs22 Golden Child\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab }{\fs22 ANSWER: David Henry }{\b\fs22\ul Hwang}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 8. FTPE, identify these notable women, who may or may not have something in common.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab In 1848, she and Lucretia Mott led the first women\rquote 
s rights convention in the U.S., at Seneca Falls, New York, where she drew up a set of resolutions demanding improvement in the status of women.  One of these resolutions, which Mott disapproved, favored women\rquote s suffrage.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Elizabeth Cady }{\b\ul Stanton}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab 
Born in England, but later immigrating to the U.S., she is considered the first female doctor of modern times, being the first woman to gain the M.D. degree from a medical school in the U.S., graduating from New York\rquote 
s Geneva Medical College in 1849.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Elizabeth }{\b\ul Blackwell
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c. \tab 
 In 1813, she founded the Sisters of Charity, the first American religious society, and in 1975 became the first native-born American to be canonized by the Roman Catholic Church.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Saint Elizabeth Ann }{\b\ul Seton
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 9. 30-20-10, name the actor from the given movies.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 30:\tab Get Carter, The Ipcress File
\par 20:\tab Zulu, The Man Who Would Be King
\par 10:\tab Hannah and Her Sisters, Dirty Rotten Scoundrels
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Michael }{\b\ul Caine}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 10. \tab I wonder how many of you high schoolers have had contact with MS-DOS, the original operating  system of choice. For ten points each, answer these questions about DOS and its remnants.

\par a. \tab Anyone who has used computers of yesteryear are familiar with these two files that auto
matically execute themselves when a computer is booted. they serve the function of loading TSRs, such as CD-ROMs and Sound Cards. For ten points each, name these two files, and don\rquote t forget their extensions!
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\fs22\ulw config.sys}{\fs22  and }{\b\fs22\ulw autoexec.bat}{\fs22 
\par b. \tab For the final ten points, name this program, integrated into MS-DOS since version 4.0 that serves the same function as the Microsoft Explorer of the present.
\par ANSWER:\tab  MS-DOS }{\b\fs22\ulw Shell}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 11. For ten points each, identify the following brand names from their origin.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 a.\tab}}\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls3\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls3\adjustright \fs22 {
Created in 1914 when Becton Dickinson needed to stop importing German elastic bandages, they held a contest to name their own product, made from elastic cotton.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Ace}{ bandages
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 b.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls3\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls3\adjustright {
This company was formed by the Church family, which in the 1860s owned the Vulcan spice mills. The logo of the new company was taken from the previous company\rquote s, and is representative of the work of Vulcan.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Arm & Hammer}{
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 c.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls3\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls3\adjustright {
The first Post cereal, it was created in 1897. It is cooked in a process where starch in the dough is converted to dextrose, commonly called \ldblquote grape sugar.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Grape Nuts}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 12. For ten points each answer these questions about the 1998 Antoinette Perry (\ldblquote Tony\rdblquote ) Awards.
\par a.\tab Name this daytime talk-show host who hosted the Tony awards, broadcast from Radio City Music Hall. 
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER: Rosie }{\b\ul O\rquote Donnell}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab Name this puppeteer, the first woman in the Tony Awards\rquote  52-year history to win Best Director of a Musical, winning for her creative interpretation of Disney\rquote s }{
\i\fs22 The Lion King}{\fs22 .
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Julie }{\b\ul Taymor}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Name this director, the first woman in Tony Award history to win Best Director of a Play, winning for her disturbing portrayal of a mother-daughter relationship in }{\i\fs22 
The Beauty Queen of Leenane}{\fs22 .
\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Garry }{\b\ul Hynes}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s20\widctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f0\fs22 13. \tab 30-20-10 Name the scientist!
\par 30 pts - \tab Born in 1839, this physicist/chemist was a pioneer in chemical thermodynamics. He also made contributions in vector analysis while studying the electromagnetic theory of light. 
\par 20 - \tab He studied in Germany, and has taught at Yale University as a chemistry professor, where his fellow professors probably called him Josiah Williard, or Joe.
\par 10 - \tab In the equation for describing the spontaneity of reactions, taught to all first-year chemistry students, Delta G is named after him. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  Josiah Williard }{\b\ulw Gibbs
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 
\par 14.  For ten points each, identify the following characters from Greek myth.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab This man was so enthralled by an ivory statue that he fell in love with it.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Pygmalion}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab Crafty god that he was, Zeus masqueraded as a shower of gold to impregnate this woman.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Danae}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab This namesake of a moon of Jupiter was turned into a heifer by Zeus.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 ANSWER:\tab }{\b\fs22\ul Io}{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 15. \tab For ten points each, name these 1998 National Book Award winners.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab This novel, by Alice McDermott, won the award for best fiction.  It is the story of Irish Catholics in the Bronx and how death and alcoholism affect the family structure.

\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Charming Billy
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab This book was the first work by Edward Ball, and chronicles the author's  Charleston, South Carolina family and its slaveholding past.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\i\ul Slaves in the Family}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab This author won his third National Book Foundation Award for his services to l
iterature.  He is widely regarded as the best living American novelist, and is most famous for the "Rabbit" books.  
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab John }{\b\ul Updike}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s23\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 16. I bet you learned so much about the Galapagos Islands in your Bio classes. As a reward for those who didn\rquote t fall asleep, I\rquote ll give you a juicy  on residents of the island.
\par a.\tab In our fair land of the Galapagos, there lives a flightless bird, the only bird in it\rquote s species to lack the ability to fly. For ten points, name him. 
\par ANSWER:\tab  The Flightless }{\b\fs22\ulw Cormorant}{\fs22 
\par b. \tab I bet you\rquote ve heard enough about the finches (they were actually mockingbirds, but that\rquote 
s not important) that Darwin studied to make you foam at the mouth, but if you remember how many species of finches were on the island, you will be rewarded with fifteen points.
\par ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\fs22\ulw fourteen}{\fs22 
\par c.\tab For those non-science students who love to watch TV, here\rquote s your reward. In one Frasier episode, Frasier dates a supermodel zoologist, who must go away to Galapagos Islands to  artificially inseminate these indegenous reptiles. For 
the remaining five points, name the creature, which is also l\rquote animale de jour in a Tennessee Williams play. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab  }{\b\ulw Iguanas
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 17. \tab }{\i\fs22 Happy Days}{\fs22  wouldn\rquote t be complete without the Fonz. And World Wars wouldn\rquote t be complete without the Franz. Franz Ferdinand of 
Austria that is. Answer these questions about the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, the event that we all remember as having started that little disagreement in Europe, nothing like the usual tiff at Arnold\rquote s.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab For 5 points, name the assassin of the unfortunate Franz.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab Gavrilo }{\b\ul Princip}{\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab For 10 points, name the Pan-Slavic organization Princip belonged to.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Black Hand}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab Unlike the Fonz, the Franz was not much into the chick scene. Instead, he married a Czech Countess, rather than in
dulge himself with the royal groupies. For 15 points, name Franz Ferdinand\rquote s wife.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Sophie}{ Chotek
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 18. For 5 points each, name the 6 U.S. States with the largest sea coastlines from largest to smallest. This include coastlines on the Gulf of Mexico,
 but not the Great Lakes or any other inland bodies of water.  You have 15 seconds.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Alaska}{ (6,640 miles), }{\b\ul Florida}{ (1,350), }{\b\ul California}{ (840), }{\b\ul Hawaii}{ (750), }{\b\ul Louisiana}{ (397), }{\b\ul Texas}{ (367)
\par 
\par 19. \tab This bonus is short and sweet. Five each, 20 for all three, name the three novels in }{\i USA }{trilogy. You\rquote ll get another ten points for telling me the author.
\par ANSWER: \tab }{\i The }{\b\i\ul 42}{\b\i\ul\super nd}{\b\i\ul  Parallel}{, }{\b\i\ul 1919}{, }{\i The }{\b\i\ul Big Money}{; author: John }{\b\ul Dos Passos}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 20. For ten points each, answer these questions about that hotbed of liberalism living in our shadow to the North.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {a.\tab This city has the largest French-speaking population outside of Paris.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Montreal}{
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 b.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart2\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {This city\rquote 
s recent setbacks include losing an NHL team and devastating floods.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Winnipeg}{
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs22 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 c.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnlcltr\pnstart2\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls1\adjustright {
This province, known as the rock, has been hardest hit by cod fishing restrictions.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Newfoundland}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs22\cgrid {\f0 21. \tab Identify the psychological schools from a description for fifteen points each.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {a.\tab It sought to analyze the adult mind in terms of the simplest de
finable components and then to find the way in which these components fit together in complex forms. It is normally associated with Edward B. Titchener.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul structuralism}{
\par b.\tab Its precepts were formulated as a reaction against the atomistic orientation o
f previous theories, and emphasized that the whole of anything is greater than its parts. This twentieth century school laid the groundwork for future studies of perception.
\par ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Gestalt}{ psychology
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\widctlpar\tx360\adjustright \fs20 {\fs22 22. Answer these questions about the revolution of the great Lone Star state, the only state who can claim to have once been a nation. Warning: Forget the Alamo!
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab For 10 points, name the last battle of the Texas Revolution that ended with the wounding of General Santa Anna of Mexico and victory by forces le
d by General Sam Houston on April 21, 1836.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul San Jacinto}{\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab For 10 points, name the site of a massacre of James Fannin and nearly 400 Texans, executed by order of Santa Anna. Along with, \ldblquote Remember the Alamo!\rdblquote 
 this town also became a battle cry at San Jacinto, having occurred less than one month prior.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Goliad}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 c.\tab For 10 points, give the nickname of the female Texas spy, immortalized in song, whose job it was to keep Santa Anna \ldblquote occupied\rdblquote 
 the night before the attack at San Jacinto, thus allowing the Texan forces to catch him with his \ldblquote pants down.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Yellow Rose of Texas}{
\par 
\par 23. As if Russia doesn\rquote t have enough problems, it\rquote s in a dispute with the US over nuclear proliferation. Identify the following for 15 points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 a.\tab The dispute involves this neighbor of Russia.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Iran}{
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\fs22 b.\tab Russia is currently engaged in a peaceful, IAEA\_approved nuclear project with Iran building a nuclear reactor in this southern Iranian port.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22 {ANSWER:\tab }{\b\ul Bushehr}{\~[boo-SHARE]
\par 
\par }}