{\rtf1\mac \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\fnil\fcharset77\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f8\fnil\fcharset77\fprq2 Times;}{\f36\fnil\fcharset77\fprq2 Impact;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue212;\red2\green171\blue234;\red31\green183\blue20;\red242\green8\blue132;\red221\green8\blue6;\red252\green243\blue5;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green100\blue17;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar \f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\li-1440\nowidctlpar \f4 \snext15 Quick a.;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f4\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext16 header;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f4\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext17 footer;}{\s18\widctlpar \f8\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext18 Body Text;}}{\info{\author Yale Cluster User}{\operator djdavies}{\creatim\yr1998\mo4\dy11\hr11\min9}{\version1}{\edmins13}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49231}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\makebackup\aftnnar\hyphcaps0 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\titlepg {\header \pard\plain \s16\ri-90\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx9360 \f4\fs20 {\i Yale Bulldog High School Academic Tournament. }Round 4.\tab Page {\field{\*\fldinst  PAGE }{\fldrslt 4}} of 7\par }{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain \fi720\nowidctlpar \f4\fs20 {\fs24 \tab \tab }{\f36\fs48 ROUND 4: TOSSUPS}{\f36\fs24 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII\par \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1915\endnhere\titlepg {\header \pard\plain \nowidctlpar \f4\fs20 {\i\fs24 Bulldog HS Academic Tournament VII. }{\fs24 Round X.\tab Page \chpgn  of 4\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \nowidctlpar \f4\fs20 {\i\fs18\cchs0 \'a9}{\i\fs18  1998 Yale Student Academic Competitions. Questions may not be distributed without express written permission.\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar \f4\fs20 {\fs24 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 1. Even though their lead singer sounds much like Stevie Wonder, their albums }{\i\fs22 Emergency on Planet Earth }{\fs22 and }{\i\fs22 Return of the Space Cowboy}{\fs22  didn\rquote t sell to well in the US. Their third album, }{\i\fs22 Travelling Without Moving}{\fs22 , changed all that. FTP, name this British pop\_soul group led by Jay Kay which won the 1997 MTV Best Video of the Year award for \ldblquote Virtual Insanity.\rdblquote \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Jamiroquai}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 2. It\rquote s the most abundant protein in mammals, found in large amounts in bones, teeth, cartilage, skin, and tendons. Three alpha helices [hee\_li\_sees] give it the tensile strength necessary for its role as a structural support protein. Though it sounds like it creates institutions of higher learning, it really just holds us together. FTP, name this protein.\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul collagen}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 3. This board game has existed since the 1940s, but in 1997 a personal computer version was released on CD-ROM. In it, a player can chat with a variety of suspects, none of whom seems to be telling the truth. Such liars can also be found in the 1985 movie version of the game, which starred Michael McKeon, Tim Curry, and Christopher Lloyd. FTP identify this murder mystery game.\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Clue}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 4. His first name is Ahmed, and he was born to a Moslem businessman and educated at the Rugby School and the University of Cambridge. He has written children\rquote s stories and allegorical works about India and Pakistan, but now he lives in hiding under the protection of Scotland Yard. FTP identify this author whose }{\i\fs22 Satanic Verses}{\fs22  put a $6 million price on his head.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: Ahmed Salman }{\b\fs22\ul Rushdie}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 5. Tried and convicted in 1991 for kidnapping and assault, she escaped jail time. Leader of the Women\rquote s League of the ruling party, she is known as the \ldblquote Mother of the Nation,\rdblquote  but now she\rquote s in trouble at the hearing she requested before the Truth and Reconciliation Committee. FTP, name this longtime wife of South Africa\rquote s president.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul W}{\fs22 innie Madikizela-}{\b\fs22\ul Mandela}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 6. Although written continuously, it is typically discussed as consisting of a preamble with 63 clauses. Ross Perot owns a copy of it and allows it to be displayed at the National Archives. Among other things, it stated that no freeman in England could be deprived of liberty or property except through a trial or other legal process. FTP identify this document signed at Runnymede in 1215. \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Magna Carta}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 7. Known to wear $100 bills in his handkerchief pocket, he\~used a rubber stamp to sign autographs. Known as the \ldblquote dean of the green\rdblquote  and \ldblquote bank-shot bandit,\rdblquote  he is best known by the nickname of the character\emdash based on him\emdash portrayed by Jackie Gleason in }{\i\fs22 The Hustler}{\fs22 . FTP, name this man who frequently played Willie Mosconi, once called \ldblquote New York Fats.\rdblquote \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Minnesota Fats\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 8. This author recounts growing up separated from his parents in 1890\rquote s }{\i\fs22 The Light that Failed}{\fs22 . The first British recipient of the Nobel Prize in Literature, his books include }{\i\fs22 Wee Willie Winkie}{\fs22 \~and }{\i\fs22 Departmental Ditties.}{\fs22 \~FTP, name this author best known for his }{\i\fs22 Just So Stories }{\fs22 and }{\i\fs22 Jungle Book.}{\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: Rudyard }{\b\fs22\ul Kipling}{\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \page 9. It was first proposed in 1836 by John Plumbe and Robert John Walker. The 1849 gold rush, along with fears that Canada would try to annex the Northwest, stimulated demand for this project. Construction began during the Civil War at Omaha and Sacramento. FTP name this great construction project completed in 1886 at Promontory, Utah with a golden stake.\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Transcontinental Rail}{\fs22 road (accept Union Pacific Railroad or Central Pacific Railroad)\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 10. When Tantalus served his son Pelops to the gods, only this goddess was foolish enough to eat. She also grieved so inconsolably for her abducted daughter Persephone that the earth became barren through her neglect, thus creating winter. FTP, identify this Greek goddess of harvest and fertility.\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Demeter}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 11. Pencil and paper ready! FAQTP, if you toss six pennies, what are the odds that }{\i\fs22 exactly}{\fs22 \~three will land heads up? }{\i\fs22 You have 15 seconds to buzz in.}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul 5/16}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul 10/32}{\fs22 \~or }{\b\fs22\ul 20/64}{\fs22 \~or 0.3125 [from row 6 of Pascal\rquote s triangle]\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \widctlpar {\fs22 12. Although his family was filled with clergymen, he obtained an MD at the University of Zurich in 1902. He suggested that humans can be classified as extroverts and introverts, and later differentiated four functions of the mind. FTP, identify this Swiss psychologist, most famous for his theory of the collective unconscious and opposition to Freud.\par }\pard \widctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: Carl Gustav }{\b\fs22\ul Jung}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 13. If the only work done is a change of volume at constant pressure, the change in this quantity equals the heat transferred to the system. It is defined as internal energy plus pressure times volume. FTP, name this thermodynamic quantity symbolized by a capital H.\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul enthalpy}{\fs22 \~[prompt on \ldblquote heat\rdblquote ]\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 14. \ldblquote Epistrophy,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Round Midnight,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Criss Cross,\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Well, You Needn\rquote t\rdblquote  are compositions by this musician who, with Charlie Parker and Dizzy Gillespie, developed bebop during the 1940s. From North Carolina, he had a small following until the mid-1950s because of his unorthodox piano style. FTP, name this musician who died in 1982, who composed \ldblquote Blue Monk.\rdblquote \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: Thelonius }{\b\fs22\ul Monk}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 15. They share a name. One was American merchant, art collector, and philanthropist who established one of the world\rquote s great department stores in Manhattan. Another is a Yale biology professor who shared the 1989 Nobel Chemistry Prize with Thomas Cech. A third directed films such as }{\i\fs22 Ready to Wear}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 Short Cuts}{\fs22 , and }{\i\fs22 The Player}{\fs22 . FTP, give the common surname.\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Altman}{\fs22  (Benjamin, Sidney, and Robert)\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 16. Though Irish monks had visited these islands as early as AD 700, they were not permanently settled until the Norse came in the late 800s. In the 1300s they became the property of Denmark, and they remain Danish to this day. FTP, name this North Atlantic island group with capital at Thorshavn.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Faeroe}{\fs22  Islands\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 17. This religion is divided into 2 major branches: Theravada and Mahayana. Theravada is significant in Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, and Sri Lanka, while Mahayana dominates in China, Mongolia, Korea, Vietnam, and Japan. FTP, name this religion founded in northeastern India by the wisdom of Siddhartha Guatama.\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Buddhism}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \page \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 18. He was a scholar who taught Oriental and Greek Literature at the General Theological Seminary in New York from 1823 to 1850. FTP, name this author who gave America its most enduring memory of Santa Claus in his anonymously published 1844 poem \ldblquote A Visit from Saint Nicholas\rdblquote .\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: Clement }{\b\fs22\ul Moore}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 19. Appointed painter to the republic of Venice after the death of Giovanni Bellini, this painter\rquote s early works include }{\i\fs22 Sacred}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 Profane Love}{\fs22 . Later, he painted the }{\i\fs22 Madonna of the Pesaro Family}{\fs22  for the church of the Frari. FTP, name this painter of}{\i\fs22  Venus of Urbino}{\fs22 , born Tiziano Vecelli.\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Titian}{\fs22  [ACC: Tiziano }{\b\fs22\ul Vecelli}{\fs22  on early buzz]\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 20. The grave of Mary Hays is at West Point, where she was denied the whiskey ration the commissary gave other pensioners. For seven years she served alongside her artilleryman husband, swabbing cannon bores and loading shot. FTP give the nickname by which we know this Revolutionary War heroine.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: Molly }{\b\fs22\ul Pitcher}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 21. For elemental oxygen, or any other element in an uncombined state, it is zero. For an ion, it is equal to the charge. In a compound it is zero. For a polyatomic ion, it is equal to the charge. FTP, identify this chemical heuristic that is useful in predicting chemical reactions and described by the previous rules.\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul oxidation number}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul oxidation state}{\fs22  (prompt on \ldblquote oxidation\rdblquote )\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 22. Born in Shaoh-sing, China, in 1898, he studied in Japan and later returned to China to work on revolutionary student magazines and agitation movements until his arrest in 1920. He moved to France, where his devotion to communism was solidified. A pragmatist and able negotiator, he helped arrange Nixon\rquote s historic 1972 meeting with Mao Zedong. FTP, name the premier of China from 1949 to 1976.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Zhou}{\fs22  Enlai (Chou En-lai)\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs24 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 23. This author first gained attention with his story of the lives of Monterey }{\i\fs22 paisanos}{\fs22  in }{\i\fs22 Tortilla Flat}{\fs22 . He followed this with a story about two itinerant farmhands hoping to save enough money to buy a house, and then a book about the Joad family. FTP, name this author of }{\i\fs22 Of Mice and Men}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 The Grapes of Wrath}{\fs22 .\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: John }{\b\fs22\ul Steinbeck}{\fs22 \par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar {\fs24 \page \tab \tab }{\f36\fs48 ROUND 4: BONI}{\f36\fs24 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab Bulldog High School Academic Tournament VII\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 1. Thermodynamics says your hunk of burnin\rquote  love can transfer the heat of passion in three ways. Identify them, 10 points each.\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 a.\tab He walks into the room and his blazing primal fire heats the air around him, which in turn warms up your now-feverish skin. What method of heat transfer made you sweat?\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul convection}{\fs22 \par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 b.\tab His perfectly chiseled face burns like the sun, emitting hot, lusty, infrared desire that makes your cheeks heat up. Through what method did he warm you across the empty space of the room?\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul radiation}{\fs22 \par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 c.\tab He sits down next to you, his god-like physique pressed to yours. The inferno of his passion is transferred to your trembling frame as his steamy body gives heat to yours, through what method?\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul conduction}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 2. Identify these new \ldblquote religions\rdblquote  for 10 points each.\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 a.\tab This religion was originally known as the Russellites, and one of the requirements of its members is door\_to\_door preaching, so that they may act as a \ldblquote watch tower\rdblquote  of Christianity.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Jehovah\rquote s Witnesses}{\fs22 \par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 b.\tab This religion fosters a very strict belief in the omnipotence of God, using prayer and faith in lieu of modern medical techniques.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Church of Christ, Scientist}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul Christian Science}{\fs22  [don\rquote t accept Scientology]\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 c.\tab Popular with many celebrities, this religion of self-knowledge has been the target of many anti\_cult lawsuits, particularly in Germany. \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: Church of }{\b\fs22\ul Scientology}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar \f8\fs22 3. {\f4 For 10 points, what term describes a novel written as a series of letters?\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar \f4\fs20 {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul epistolary}{\fs22 \~novel\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 For 10 more points, name the first epistolary novel, written by Samuel Richardson.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: }{\i\fs22 An Apology for the Life of Miss }{\b\i\fs22\ul Pamela}{\i\fs22  Andrews}{\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 For a final 10 points, which author parodied }{\i\fs22 Pamela}{\fs22 \~in his novels }{\i\fs22 Joseph Andrews}{\fs22 \~and }{\i\fs22 Shamela?}{\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 ANSWER: Henry }{\b\fs22\ul Fielding}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 4. Ten points each, answer these questions about the startling stock market fluctuations of October 1997.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 a. \tab Within 10, on Monday, October 27, the Dow Jones industrial average fell how many points?\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul 554}{\fs22  [ACC: }{\b\fs22\ul 544}{\fs22  to }{\b\fs22\ul 564}{\fs22 ]\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 b.\tab The next day, the stock market broke two records: one for largest gain, one for highest volume. Give either the volume to the nearest 100 million, or the rise within 3 points.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul 337.17}{\fs22  [ACC: }{\b\fs22\ul 334.17}{\fs22  to }{\b\fs22\ul 340.17}{\fs22 ] }{\i\fs22 or}{\fs22  }{\b\fs22\ul 1.2 billion }{\fs22 [ACC: }{\b\fs22\ul 1.1}{\fs22  to }{\b\fs22\ul 1.3}{\fs22 ]\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 c.\tab These fluctuations were the biggest stock market news since \ldblquote Black Monday.\rdblquote  All or nothing, give the month, day, and year of that crash.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul October 19, 1987\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \page \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 5. Given the high point in America and its height, identify its state for 10 points each.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 a.\tab Mount Washington, 6,288 feet\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul New Hampshire}{\fs22 \par b.\tab Mount Hood, 11,239 feet\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Oregon}{\fs22 \par c.\tab Mount Yale, 14,196 feet\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Colorado}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par 6. Answer these questions on the Punic Wars, ten points each:\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 a. \tab This brilliant Carthage general led his army through the Alps, campaigning in Italy for 12 years.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Hannibal}{\fs22 \par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 b. \tab This Roman general used hit-and-run tactics to wear Hannibal\rquote s army down and earn him the title \ldblquote delayer\rdblquote .\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: Quintus }{\b\fs22\ul Fabius}{\fs22  Maximus Cunctator\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 c. \tab What Roman general burned Carthage and salted its soil in the Third Punic War?\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Scipio Africanis Minor}{\fs22  or Publius Cornelius }{\b\fs22\ul Scipio Aemelianus}{\fs22  Africanus Numantinus\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 7. 30-20-10-5. Identify the common surname.\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 30:\tab Carl Maria composed the opera }{\i\fs22 Der Frei-sch}{\i\fs22\cchs0 \'fc}{\i\fs22 tz}{\fs22 , or }{\i\fs22 The Marksman}{\fs22 .\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 20:\tab Max was a German sociologist and political economist best known for his thesis of the \ldblquote Protestant Ethic,\rdblquote  relating Protestantism to capitalism.\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 10:\tab Wilhelm, a nineteenth century German physicist, gave his name to a unit of magenetic flux.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 5:\tab Steven appeared in the TV version of }{\i\fs22 The Shining} and on the series {\i Wings.}\par \pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Weber}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 8. Name the muscle from clues for 10 points each.\par a.\tab The muscles that make your hair stand on end.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER }{\b\fs22\ul erector pili}{\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 b.\tab The main muscle involved in moving the jaw in chewing.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER }{\b\fs22\ul masseter\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 c.\tab The large, fleshy muscle of the calf. Two possible answers.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER }{\b\fs22\ul gastrocnemius}{\fs22  [gas-trok-neem-ee-us] or }{\b\fs22\ul soleus}{\fs22  [sol-lee-us]\par }\pard \widctlpar \par \pard \widctlpar {\fs22 9. Name the psychological test from clues for 10 points, or give the acronym for 5.\par a.\tab Subjects look at black\_and \_white and colored symmetrical inkblots and say what they see.\par }\pard \widctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Rorschach}{\fs22  inkblot test [prompt on \ldblquote inkblot\rdblquote ]\par }\pard \widctlpar {\fs22 b.\tab Subjects are shown pictures of people interacting and then say what they think is going on.\par }\pard \widctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Thematic Apperception Test}{\fs22 \~[5 for }{\b\fs22\ul TAT}{\fs22 ]\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\widctlpar {\fs22 c.\tab This 567 true\_false test is designed to rate individuals in 14 different areas of personality, such as depression, paranoia, and psychopathic deviance. It is the most frequently administered psychological test in a professional setting.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory}{\fs22  [5 for }{\b\fs22\ul MMPI}{\fs22 ]\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 10. Ten points each, answer these questions by naming the play in which they appear. For example, \ldblquote Beatrice and Benedick\rquote s merry war turned out to be this\rdblquote , leads to }{\i\fs22 Much Ado About Nothing}{\fs22 .\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 a.\tab What does Laura Wingfield own?\tab \tab ANSWER: }{\i\fs22 The }{\b\i\fs22\ul Glass Menagerie}{\fs22 \par b.\tab Who is Sheridan Whiteside?\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\i\fs22 The }{\b\i\fs22\ul Man Who Came to Dinner}{\fs22 \par c.\tab Claude Hooper Bukowski has a lot of what?\tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul Hair}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 11. Answer the following about the Franco-Prussian War, 10 points each.\par a.\tab What prince accepted the Spanish throne in 1870, thus precipitating the war?\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Leopold}{\fs22  of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 b.\tab Name the French emperor who declared war on Prussia in July 1870.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER:}{\b\fs22\ul  Napoleon III}{\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 c.\tab What German general exploited his numerically superior forces in most of the war\rquote s battles?\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: Helmuth von }{\b\fs22\ul Moltke}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 12. Identify the authors from works on a 15-5 basis.\par a.\tab 15:\tab }{\i\fs22 How Stella Got Her Groove Back}{\fs22 \par \tab 5:\tab }{\i\fs22 Waiting to Exhale}{\fs22 \par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: Terry }{\b\fs22\ul McMillan}{\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 b.\tab 15:\tab }{\i\fs22 The Gospel According to the Son}{\fs22 \par \tab 5:\tab }{\i\fs22 The Naked and the Dead}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab \tab ANSWER: Norman }{\b\fs22\ul Mailer}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par 13. Answer these questions about musicians, 10 points each.\par a.\tab Five points for two, ten points for all three, name the 3 Tenors.\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: Jose }{\b\fs22\ul Carreras}{\fs22 , Placido }{\b\fs22\ul Domingo}{\fs22 , Luciano }{\b\fs22\ul Pavarotti}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 b.\tab What instrument do Gil Shaham and Vanessa-Mae play?\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul violin}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 c.\tab Name the current conductor of the Boston Pops Orchestra, seen on PBS\rquote s }{\i\fs22 An Evening at Pops}{\fs22 .\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: Keith }{\b\fs22\ul Lockhart\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par 14. For the stated number of points, answer these questions about the Nobel Peace Prize.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 a.\tab 10 for one, 15 for both, name the organization awarded the 1997 Peace Prize, and its coordinator.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul International Campaign to Ban Landmines}{\fs22 \~and Jody }{\b\fs22\ul Williams}{\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 b.\tab For 5 point for the month and 10 points for the month and day, on what day, the anniversary of Alfred Nobel\rquote s death, are Nobel prizes awarded?\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul December 10}{\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 c.\tab For 5 points, name the city where the Peace Prize, unlike the other Nobel awards, is awarded.\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Oslo}{\fs22 , Norway\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 15. 10 points each, identify the treaty that ended each of the following wars.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 a.\tab Thirty Years\rquote  War\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Peace of }{\b\fs22\ul Westphalia}{\fs22 \par b.\tab Crimean War\tab \tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Treaty of }{\b\fs22\ul Paris}{\fs22  of 1856\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 c.\tab Great Northern War\tab \tab \tab ANSWER: Peace of }{\b\fs22\ul Nystad}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \widctlpar {\fs22 16. Identify the following government terms for 10 points each.\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\widctlpar {\fs22 a.\tab The Constitution and the Fourteenth Amendment provide that representatives shall be chosen among the states according to their respective numbers, through what process of allocation?\par }\pard \widctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul apportionment}{\fs22 \par }\pard \fi-720\li720\widctlpar {\fs22 b.\tab This term refers to killing a bill in committee by putting it aside and not reporting it out for consideration by the chamber, effectively filing it away and forgetting about it.\par }\pard \widctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul pigeonhole}{\fs22 \par }\pard \fi-720\li720\widctlpar {\fs22 c.\tab This is a parliamentary device used in the United States Congress by which a minority of senators seeks to frustrate the will of the majority by literally \ldblquote talking a bill to death.\rdblquote \par }\pard \widctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul filibuster}{\fs22 ing\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par 17. A/SC. Name the artists from his real name for 15 points, or from works, for 10.\par a.\tab 15: \tab Domenikos Theotocopoulos\par \tab 10: }{\i\fs22 \tab Purification of the Temple, Christ Stripped of his Garments, View of Toledo}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul El Greco}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 b.\tab 15: \tab Michelangelo Merisi\par \tab 10: \tab }{\i\fs22 Conversion of Saint Paul, The Inspiration of Saint Matthew, Medusa}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Caravaggio}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 18. Literary adaptations were big in 1997 movies. Given the author and actors, give the book, 10 each.\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 a.\tab Henry James\rquote  1902 novel about love and money; the movie starred Alison Elliot, Helena Bonham Carter, and Linus Roache.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\i\fs22 The }{\b\i\fs22\ul Wings of the Dove}{\fs22 \par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 b.\tab James Ellroy\rquote s 1990 novel, the movie starred Kevin Spacey, Russell Crowe, and Guy Pearce.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\i\fs22\ul L.A. Confidential}{\fs22 \par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 c.\tab Elmore Leonard\rquote s 1992 crime novel }{\i\fs22 Rum Punch}{\fs22  was adapted into this movie with Pam Grier.\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER:}{\b\fs22\ul  }{\b\i\fs22\ul Jackie Brown}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \par \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 19. Answer these questions about }{\i\fs22 The Mutiny on the Bounty}{\fs22 , 10 points each.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 a.\tab To which island in the South Pacific did the Bounty return after the crew set Captain Bligh adrift?\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Tahiti}{\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 b.\tab What was the primary cargo of the ship, which was to be carried to the West Indies?\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul breadfruit trees}{\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 c.\tab Name either of the authors of the best selling }{\i\fs22 Bounty}{\fs22  trilogy.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: Charles }{\b\fs22\ul Nordhoff}{\fs22  or James }{\b\fs22\ul Hall}{\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 20. M/STI. Answer these questions on Hindu mythology, 10 points each.\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tx720 \f4 {\fs22 a.\tab This elephant\_headed Hindu god, the son of Shiva and Parvati, is considered the remover of obstacles, and Homer Simpson impersonated it to try and stop Apu\rquote s wedding.\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar \f4\fs20 {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Ganesh}{\fs22 \~or }{\b\fs22\ul Ganesha}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tx720 {\fs22 b.\tab This great epic poem was written }{\i\fs22 c.}{\fs22  300 BC.  It concerns the title character and the abduction of his wife Sita.  His reign becomes the prototype of the harmonious and just kingdom.\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\i\fs22 The }{\b\i\fs22\ul Ramayana}{\fs22 \par }\pard\plain \s15\qj\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tx720 \f4 {\fs22 c.\tab Rama is a blue incarnation of what god?\par }\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar \f4\fs20 {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Vishnu}{\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 VISUAL BONUS\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 21. [Do not show the picture until the 20 point part.] Identify the musical group on a 30-20-10 basis.\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 30:\tab This band once said about itself, \ldblquote [we're] not a one-off, blow-up all at once kind of band. Our goal is to create a long career of catalog pieces and a loyal and constantly growing fan base. And, of course, to get lots of free beer.\rdblquote  Given the title of their first album, this is not surprising.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 20:\tab [Show picture] The lead singer, guitarist, and song-writer of the group is shown in the picture.\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 10:\tab This pictured man, Brad Nowell, died of a drug overdose in May 1996. The group\rquote s eponymous album contains the songs \ldblquote What I Got\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Santeria.\rdblquote \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Sublime}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 22. Do }{\i\fs22 you}{\fs22  scream for ice cream? Answer these questions about ice cream, 10 points each.\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 a.\tab Tortoni was a cafe owner credited with making the first \ldblquote cream ice.\rdblquote  In what city of exquisite cuisine did he do this?\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Paris}{\fs22 , France\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 b.\tab What ice cream innovation originated at the 1904 World\rquote s Fair in St. Louis?\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: the ice cream }{\b\fs22\ul cone}{\fs22 \par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 c.\tab What city was the hub of ice cream manufacturing in early America and saw the creation of the first ice cream soda in 1874?\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Philadelphia}{\fs22 , Pennsylvania\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 VISUAL BONUS\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 23. This is a picture of a storage battery of the type found in cars. Answer these questions, 10 points each.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 a.\tab What element is found in both the anode and cathode?\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul lead}{\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 b.\tab What liquid is used between the anode and cathode plates?\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul sulfuric acid}{\fs22  or }{\b\fs22\ul H}{\b\fs22\ul\sub 2}{\b\fs22\ul SO}{\b\fs22\ul\sub 4}{\fs22 \par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 c.\tab Below the picture are electrochemical equations. Using these equations, how much voltage does a single cell produce, and is it positive or negative? }{\i\fs22 You have 10 seconds to begin your answer.}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul +2.04}{\fs22  volts\~[DNA: -2.04 V]\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 24. 30\_20\_10. Name the political figure.\par 30:\tab He stole the name by which he is commonly known from a famous dead guerilla in the 1930s.\par 20:\tab He pioneered the }{\i\fs22 Juche}{\fs22  idea, an ideology of self\_reliance.\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar {\fs22 10:\tab He ruled North Korea for over 40 years, and is still the object of an intense personality cult years after his death.\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs22 \tab ANSWER: }{\b\fs22\ul Kim Il Seung}{\fs22 \par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar {\fs24 \par }}